# Teach & Learn Better With A "Neuroplasticity Super Protocol"

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Fri, 29 Oct 2021 22:20:36 +0000*

---

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Podcast Neural Network—a
once a month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life.

For this newsletter, I want to provide you some actionable
information in condensed form. It relates to a talk (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/wnh2hghrqzrwnrul/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9PbzdoUWFwRmUzTQ==
) I recently gave (hosted by Logitech) for teachers, and students
of all ages.

There were two goals of the lecture:

* Provide an overview of the major discoveries on neuroplasticity
and learning.
* Share a "Neuroplasticity Super-Protocol" based on those
discoveries, so that anyone can teach and learn anything more
efficiently.

Note: This version of the "Neuroplasticity Super-Protocol"
focuses on behavioral tools. If you want a description of the
specific scientific references that support the steps listed
below, please watch this video (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/wnh2hghrqzrwnrul/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9PbzdoUWFwRmUzTQ==
).

-------------------------------
NEUROPLASTICITY SUPER-PROTOCOL​
-------------------------------

1. GET ALERT
------------

We must be alert to trigger neuroplasticity (later, sleep
completes the neuroplasticity/learning process). Getting alert
involves many mechanisms but mainly the release of epinephrine
(adrenaline) in the brain and body. One simple way to become more
alert is 25-30 deep breaths (inhales through the nose, and
exhales through the mouth). Then exhale your air and hold your
breath with lungs empty for 15-60 seconds. Then inhale once and
hold your breath. But don’t force the breath hold; start to
breathe normally immediately once you feel the impulse to
breathe. Whether you rely on caffeine or not (I certainly do in
the early portion of the day), try this prior to a learning bout.

2. GET FOCUSED
--------------

Mental focus follows visual focus. To increase your level of
focus on the task you are about to do, stare at a point on a wall
or screen, or object for 30-60 seconds before starting (You can
blink as needed). You’ll be surprised how this takes a bit of
effort—that ‘effort’ you feel is "top-down" attentional
engagement and reflects the activity of neural circuits involving
acetylcholine release in the brain, and other mechanisms too of
course. Then move into the task at hand. Expect your mental focus
to flicker on and off, especially at the start of a work/learning
bout. [Obviously, having your phone off and out of the room and
web browsers closed or limited to essential tabs only (or even
better, the internet turned off) can help.]

3. GENERATE REPETITIONS
-----------------------

Perform the maximum number of repetitions you safely can in a
given learning bout. For some types of learning, "repetitions"
will be actual repeats of something- learning scales of music,
for instance. We progress linearly for other types of learning by
repeating the same process, such as reading or doing math
problems. Regardless, the same principle holds; work to repeat
the process a bit faster than is reflexive for you. This helps
the mind from drifting off task and naturally keeps you alert.
Will you make errors? Of course, which leads to #4.

4. EXPECT & EMBRACE ERRORS
--------------------------

Provided they don’t comprise safety, errors during learning are
terrific because they increase activation of the neural circuits
that increase alertness. It makes sense, right? If you perform
something correctly, why should your brain take notice? When we
make errors, it feels "stressful," but that is just an increase
in attention that puts us in a much better place to perform and
execute learning-related behaviors the next trial—meaning on the
next attempt. Computational modeling data suggests that an error
rate of ~15% may be optimal and can help determine how difficult
we should make a task. But don’t worry too much about those
specifics. Instead, keep doing repetitions and when you mess up,
capitalize on it by doing another attempt (and another) while
your forebrain is in that maximally attentive state.

5. INSERT MICRO-REST INTERVALS (AT RANDOM)
------------------------------------------

This is a non-obvious way to increase repetitions and learn
faster. Studies (in humans) have shown that when we are trying to
learn something, if we pause every so often for 10seconds and do
nothing during the pause, neurons in the hippocampus and
cortex—areas of the brain involved in learning and memory, engage
the same patterns of neural activity that occurred during the
actual activity of reading, musical practice, skill training,
etc. but 10X faster—meaning you get 10X neural repetitions
completed during the pause. These "gap-effects" are similar to
what happens in a deep sleep. The takeaway: randomly introduce 10
second pauses during learning. "How often?" I get asked. A ratio
of approximately 1 pause per every 2 minutes of learning is good
but remember, distributed at random, so not every 2 minutes on
the minute.

6. USE RANDOM INTERMITTENT REWARD
---------------------------------

The neural circuits that control rewards (all of which are brain
chemical rewards, by the way) are closely tethered to the
circuits that control motivation and the desire to pursue things,
including learning. The question of how often to reward ourselves
or others in order to keep motivation high is simple: make it
random and intermittent. This is what casinos do to keep people
gambling. It works. Predictable rewards lose their motivational
impact quickly.

7. LIMIT LEARNING SESSIONS TO 90 MINUTES
----------------------------------------

Solid research shows that 90 minutes is about the longest period
we can expect to maintain intense focus and effort toward
learning. Shorter bouts are fine but after ~90 minutes, take a
break (see #8). Also, space intense learning bouts 2-3 (or more)
hours apart. Most people can’t do more than 270 minutes of
intense learning bouts per day.

8. AFTER A LEARNING BOUT, DO A NSDR (NON-SLEEP DEEP REST)
PROTOCOL
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Two studies (on humans) published in the last 2 years show that
shallow naps and/or NSDR can enhance the rate and depth of
learning. This is an easy practice to incorporate. Within 1 hour
of completing a learning bout, do a short NSDR protocol. You have
options as to what NSDR you choose: Reveri (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/reh8hohqm8q040h6/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cucmV2ZXJpLmNvbQ==
) is a zero-cost (research tested), self-hypnosis app, or take a
brief 20 minute nap, or listen to an NSDR script such as Yoga
Nidra (I like this 10 minute one (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/08hwh9hm28mdv2fp/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g_dj1NMHU5R1NUX2ozcyZ0PTQ4cw==
) and do it daily, or here is a longer 30 minute video (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/vqh3hrhno5nplgiw/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g_dj1wTDAySFJGazJ2bw==
) that is excellent).

9. GET QUALITY & SUFFICIENTLY LONG DEEP SLEEP THAT NIGHT (& THE
NEXT, & THE NEXT…)
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The actual rewiring of neural circuits that underlies learning
occurs during sleep and NSDR. Think of the learning bout as the
"trigger" or stimulus for the possibility that we might learn,
but sleep and NSDR are when the actual learning- the neural
circuit rewiring, occurs. I did an entire episode (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/m2h7h5ho3ro8v2al/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbWFzdGVyLXlvdXItc2xlZXAtYW5kLWJlLW1vcmUtYWxlcnQtd2hlbi1hd2FrZS8=
) (4 actually) of the Huberman Lab Podcast on mastering sleep. I
provided a summary of key points in Neural Network Newsletter #1
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/dpheh0hqe3q0vvsl/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdG9vbGtpdC1mb3Itc2xlZXAv
). Our goal should be to get sleep right at least 80% of the
time—it takes some work to get there but it is well worth it.

FINAL NOTES
-----------

In the future, I will talk about the pharmacology of
accelerated/deeper learning but remember that behavioral
protocols like the ones listed here are necessary no matter what.
You don’t have to do all 9 every learning session (although
numbers 1, 2, 9 are non-negotiable).

I’ll be posting more on tools for neuroplasticity in the near
future.

New episodes of The Huberman Lab Podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/e0hph7hk7xk06vf7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/7qh7h8h09g0oq5a9/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/owhkhqh4wz4rpvcq/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUD9zaT0zZGIxNGQxOTEyNjA0ZWMy
) and other major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/z2hghnhoego3n2fz/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93Lw==
). Please subscribe to those channels. We also launched a clips
channel (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/p8heh9h94v9zmnar/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vY2hhbm5lbC9VQ2taalRaTnZ1eHExQ1lNUzNjd1phMVE=
), where we’ll post short segments from the episodes. I post
additional science and science-based tools on Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/x0hph6hnegnwoqig/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
) and Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/6qheh8hplqp7z3b9/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
).

Thank you for your interest in science,Andrew

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/58hvh7h5ge5mqes7/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20v
).

If you didn't enjoy this email, you can unsubscribe here (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9 ).

To change your email or preferences manage your profile (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9 ).

View our privacy policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/25h2hoh735729ra8/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcHJpdmFjeS1wb2xpY3k=
).

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/e0hph7hk7xk06vf7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
) // Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/x0hph6hnegnwoqig/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
) // Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/6qheh8hplqp7z3b9/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
) // Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/qvh8h7h8dx8rw7hg/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFiLw==
)

Note: The Huberman Lab Podcast is distinct from Dr. Huberman's
teaching and research roles at Stanford University School of
Medicine. The information provided on the podcast, social media
posts and newsletters is not medical advice, nor should it be
taken or applied as a replacement for medical advice. The
Huberman Lab Podcast, its employees, guests and affiliates assume
no liability for the application of the information discussed.

Image credit: Mike Blabac (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92uenkz8wgtnh5v3rph9/g3hnh5hemve39la3/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYmxhYmFjcGhvdG8uY29t
)