# 5 Steps to Enhance Quality of Connection With Yourself & Others During the Holidays & New Year

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Wed, 22 Dec 2021 20:05:30 +0000*

---

This newsletter relates to two recent episodes of the
Huberman Lab Podcast: one on the science of gratitude & one on
the science of social bonding.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Podcast Neural Network—a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. My goal with this newsletter is to provide you
with some actionable information in condensed form. It relates to
two recent episodes of the Huberman Lab Podcast: one on the
science of gratitude (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/p8heh9h9x43zd5ur/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdGhlLXNjaWVuY2Utb2YtZ3JhdGl0dWRlLWFuZC1ob3ctdG8tYnVpbGQtYS1ncmF0aXR1ZGUtcHJhY3RpY2Uv
) and another on the science of social bonding (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/x0hph6hn3erwzlig/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vc2NpZW5jZS1vZi1zb2NpYWwtYm9uZGluZy1pbi1mYW1pbHktZnJpZW5kc2hpcC1hbmQtcm9tYW50aWMtbG92ZS8=
) (in relationships of all kinds).

While much has been said before about the science of gratitude
and its benefits, most of what I see “out there” is not accurate
to what the science shows. What is clear is that specific
gratitude practices can be immensely beneficial for us. For
example, an effective gratitude practice can:

* Reduce the activation of fear and anxiety circuits in the brain
and body.
* Improve mood, focus and sleep.
* Reduce biomarkers of inflammation. (When combined with tools
for enhancing social bonding, the positive effects are even
greater.)

For these reasons, and because the holidays and New Year are upon
us and have us navigating social interactions, I have assembled a
list of five steps to enhance the quality of connection with
yourself and others during the holidays and the new year.

-------------
1. GET THANKS
-------------

That’s right. Get thanks. Neuroimaging, EEG (brain electrical
recording) and psychology studies show that the positive effects
of a gratitude practice primarily occur when we receive, not when
we give, gratitude. Of course, for that to happen, someone has to
give gratitude, but merely writing out gratitude lists or
counting our blessings—while useful, pale in comparison to
receiving gratitude. Thus, give gratitude and encourage those
receiving it to really hear you. Hopefully, someone in your life
(perhaps many people) will genuinely thank you too.

------------------
2. MAKE IT GENUINE
------------------

In the science of gratitude (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/p8heh9h9x43zd5ur/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdGhlLXNjaWVuY2Utb2YtZ3JhdGl0dWRlLWFuZC1ob3ctdG8tYnVpbGQtYS1ncmF0aXR1ZGUtcHJhY3RpY2Uv
) podcast episode, I discussed a study showing that the genuine
intention of the gratitude giver (the thanker), has a direct
impact on the degree of positive effect felt by the person
receiving the gratitude (the thankee). So give thanks, but do so
with honesty. It matters.

----------------------------------------------------------
3. OBSERVE/RECALL OTHERS GIVING & RECEIVING GENUINE THANKS
----------------------------------------------------------

Neuroimaging studies from Antonio Damasio (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/6qheh8hpolk7w2h9/aHR0cHM6Ly9kb3Juc2lmZS51c2MuZWR1L2NmL2ZhY3VsdHktYW5kLXN0YWZmL2ZhY3VsdHkuY2ZtP3BpZD0xMDA4MzI4
)'s Lab show that observing or hearing the stories of others
receiving help (or thanks) activates pro-social circuits that
improve our mood and other health metrics. We are wired for
social interactions and are wired to gauge the emotional state of
others. Hence, billions of viral Instagram and Twitter posts of
people helping each other, people helping dogs or other animals
stuck in drainage ditches, even dogs helping people stuck in
drainage ditches, etc. It’s not by chance these posts are so
popular. As the psychologist and neuroscientist Dr. Lisa Feldman
Barrett (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/kkhmh6h8mndle8sk/aHR0cHM6Ly9saXNhZmVsZG1hbmJhcnJldHQuY29tLw==
), says: we regulate each other’s nervous systems. Having a story
you can recall in which someone received genuine gratitude is
beneficial. Recall that story 1-3 times per week. Once it’s
imbedded in your memory, you don’t have to recall it in great
detail to receive the benefits.

---------------------------------------------------------
4. INTROVERSION & EXTROVERSION REFLECT SOCIAL HOMEOSTASIS
---------------------------------------------------------

We have brain circuits that drive a “social hunger” – an appetite
for finding and reinforcing social bonds, and the release of the
neurochemical dopamine from a special brain location (called the
dorsal raphe nucleus; DRN) is involved in that drive. Studies on
introverts and extroverts suggest that introverts like social
interaction but are socially satisfied faster than are
extroverts. This makes sense, based potential differences in the
amount of dopamine they release from the DRN in response to
social interactions. Don’t assume that introverts are quiet and
that extroverts talk a lot. That can be true, but just as often,
it is simply that introverts experience more dopamine release
from less social interaction and thus are satisfied earlier. The
takeaway is to offer (or take) opportunities to exit social
interactions early and not feel guilty about it or take offense.
The extroverts can keep at it until they get the DRN/dopamine
they need. If anyone gets offended when you say, “all full… I’m
ready to go”, feel free to cite me.

---------------------
5. MERGE PHYSIOLOGIES
---------------------

Elegant studies done earlier this year show that when people hear
a story, their hearts begin to beat in a similar way even if they
are not in the same room as one another. This is remarkable and
holds up even for people with very different backgrounds and
lives. Other studies point to the fact that when people have
similar physiological experiences, they forever feel closer,
which is familiar to many of us. Oxytocin (a hormone) appears to
be involved. Narrative drives common physiological responses,
which are powerful glue for relationship building of all kinds.
The takeaway: Build social bonds by hearing, watching or sharing
stories. Everyone being on their individual phones is not the way
to do that. Watching movies, hearing someone tell stories,
playing or listening to music, etc. are all excellent paths to
this. Do those things together.

BONUS (REMINDER): Keep your wellbeing baseline high during the
holidays. View morning sunlight, avoid bright lights (most)
nights between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. and practice Non-Sleep Deep
Rest (NSDR) so you can maintain strength for yourself, and show
up strong to everything you’re doing. See Newsletter #1 (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/58hvh7h57gvm0mc7/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdG9vbGtpdC1mb3Itc2xlZXAv
) (Toolkit for Sleep) for details.

The references and details behind these practices and points are
covered in the two Huberman Lab Podcast episodes mentioned above.
The Huberman Lab Podcast episodes are out each Monday on YouTube
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/25h2hoh7d3v2g3h8/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/qvh8h7h8nd7rvohg/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/g3hnh5hepmd3npb3/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUD9zaT0zZGIxNGQxOTEyNjA0ZWMy
) and other major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/3ohphkhqz3o7rxtp/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93Lw==
). Please subscribe to those channels. We also launched a clips
channel (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/n2hohvhnrv83gmi0/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vY2hhbm5lbC9VQ2taalRaTnZ1eHExQ1lNUzNjd1phMVE=
), where we’ll post short segments from the episodes. I post
additional science and science-based tools on Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/48hvheh0gm5r9lfq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/wnh2hghrgq5w46al/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
) and Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/reh8hohqxm207rb6/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
).

If you’d like to learn more about the research my lab is doing at
Stanford and help support our research, you can visit our
Stanford lab website (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/08hwh9hmz2odx6sp/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5zdGFuZm9yZC5lZHUv
).

Thank you for your interest in science,Andrew

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/8ghqhohg9o0l3mtl/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20v
).

If you didn't enjoy this newsletter, you can unsubscribe here (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl ).

To change your email or preferences manage your profile (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl ).

View our privacy policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/vqh3hrhngoxp4wbw/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcHJpdmFjeS1wb2xpY3k=
).

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/25h2hoh7d3v2g3h8/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
) // Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/48hvheh0gm5r9lfq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
) // Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/wnh2hghrgq5w46al/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
) // Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/l2hehmhorl034dfg/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFiLw==
)

Note: The Huberman Lab Podcast is distinct from Dr. Huberman's
teaching and research roles at Stanford University School of
Medicine. The information provided on the podcast, social media
posts and newsletters is not medical advice, nor should it be
taken or applied as a replacement for medical advice. The
Huberman Lab Podcast, its employees, guests and affiliates assume
no liability for the application of the information discussed.

Image credit: Mike Blabac (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hoxg90hl/m2h7h5hoe3g89xtl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYmxhYmFjcGhvdG8uY29t
)