# Announcing Huberman Lab Premium + Your Founding Member Offer

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Sun, 02 Oct 2022 19:37:27 +0000*

---

As a subscriber to the Neural Network, I wanted you
to be the first to learn about an exciting new development for
Huberman Lab.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Hi there,

As a subscriber to the Neural Network, I wanted you to be the
first to learn about an exciting new development for Huberman
Lab.

As you know, the goal of the podcast is to provide
zero-cost-to-consumer information about science and
science-related tools to the general public. Thus far, we’ve been
relying on ads to support the time, effort and resources that go
into creating this zero-cost podcast; however, there’s still a
lot of areas we plan to expand into in order to further the reach
of tools for mental health, physical health and performance,
including funding important, high-impact research.

We’ve received an extraordinary amount of outreach asking how
people can support our mission. In particular, many people have
asked how they can support important scientific research of the
sort we talk about on Huberman Lab. Other people have asked how
they can go deeper into their learning about the topics and tools
we cover, including wanting to ask me questions and get
additional insights specific to their goals.

I’m therefore excited to announce that we are launching Huberman
Lab Premium with our partners at Supercast. Premium subscribers
will receive:

* Ask Me Anything (AMA) episodes, released monthly, where I
answer your questions and questions upvoted by premium
subscribers
* Email transcripts of AMA episodes
* 1-2 Quantal clips, released monthly, illustrating a practical
technique or topic of interest (e.g., How to Quickly Enhance
Learning Capabilities)
* Full episode transcripts of future and past episodes [coming
soon]

In addition:

* A significant portion of the proceeds will fund important
research done with humans (not animal models). This funding will
be generously amplified with a dollar-for-dollar match from the
Tiny Foundation.
* You’ll receive a Year-End Recap on the amount of money raised
for research and research funded that I’ll prepare.

Please know that the zero-cost version of Huberman Lab will NOT
change in any way. Every Monday, we will continue to put out a
new, free-to-access episode. We will always maintain our mission
of providing zero-cost information about science and
science-related tools.

However, if you wish to ask your own specific questions, get
additional insights, and contribute to new and important,
cutting-edge science — your support is greatly appreciated.

As a token of my appreciation for your support in our journey so
far, I want to extend you an exclusive invitation to be a
founding member of Huberman Lab Premium for $70/year.

-->Sign up for Huberman Lab Premium (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/4zuop7v04xbeh596qrpaq/3ohphkhqer933rir/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5zdXBlcmNhc3QuY29tLz9jb3Vwb249VlgxSHg3ZmI=
)
Sign up for Huberman Lab Premium (
https://hubermanlab.supercast.com/?coupon=VX1Hx7fb )With your
support, I look forward to expanding our content, our website,
and most importantly, to making significant contributions to the
groundbreaking science that leads to the information and tools
that enrich our lives.

Thank you for your support of public education, tools for mental
and physical health and the scientific research that forms the
basis for it all.

And as always, thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

P.S. The $70 special offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/4zuop7v04xbeh596qrpaq/3ohphkhqer933rir/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5zdXBlcmNhc3QuY29tLz9jb3Vwb249VlgxSHg3ZmI=
) is only available for 3 days (till 11:59 PM PST this Wednesday,
October 5th), after which the price will increase to $100/year.
If this interests you, please act now.

You were sent this email because you opted-in to the Neural
Network Newsletter. If you no longer wish to receive these emails
or received this email in error, you can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail.com/4zuop7v04xbeh596qrpaq )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail.com/4zuop7v04xbeh596qrpaq )
your email preferences.

Copyright © 2022 Scicomm Media LLC. All rights reserved.

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/4zuop7v04xbeh596qrpaq/n2hohvhnzg5vv5t6/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpY29tbWVkaWEuY29tL3ByaXZhY3ktcG9saWN5P3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbCZ1dG1fY29udGVudD1mb290ZXJfdGV4dF9saW5r
)