# Tools to Manage Dopamine and Improve Motivation & Drive

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Thu, 08 Sep 2022 00:06:00 +0000*

---

This newsletter will detail how to manage dopamine
levels to enhance motivation.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Podcast Neural Network — a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-supported tools
for everyday life. The purpose of this newsletter is to provide
you with actionable information in condensed form.

Dopamine is a molecule in the brain and body that is closely
linked to our sense of motivation. It can also enhance our depth
of focus and lower our threshold for taking action toward
specific goals. The simplest way to think about dopamine is that
when our dopamine levels are elevated, we tend to focus our
attention on outward goals — the things we want — and we feel
motivated to pursue them. “Dopamine is about wanting, not about
having,” said (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/p8heh9h9wgg36zbq/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZHItYW5uYS1sZW1ia2UtdW5kZXJzdGFuZGluZy1hbmQtdHJlYXRpbmctYWRkaWN0aW9uP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
) Dr. Anna Lembke, a professor of psychiatry and behavioral
sciences and the chief of the Addiction Medicine Dual Diagnosis
Clinic at Stanford, on the Huberman Lab Podcast (and she is 100%
correct). Contrast that with serotonin, which is associated not
so much with “wanting” but with feelings of well-being about what
we already have. These are generalizations of course — dopamine
and serotonin do other things too, but they are accurate,
nonetheless. It is hard to overstate how much dopamine levels
shape our perception of life, our emotions, and how capable we
perceive ourselves to be — when dopamine levels are low, we feel
unmotivated, derive less pleasure from pursuits and feel
physically tired. This newsletter will detail how to manage
dopamine levels to enhance motivation.

-----------------------------------------------
Part I: Managing Dopamine to Sustain Motivation
-----------------------------------------------

We have a baseline of dopamine, and it can spike or drop based on
various actions, compounds we ingest or even our thoughts. Our
baseline dopamine (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/x0hph6hnv99r2eb5/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9RbU9GMGNyZHlSVT90PTIyMTg=
) levels are influenced by many factors, including genetics,
behaviors, sleep, nutrition and the level of dopamine you
experienced on previous days (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/dpheh0hq988468sm/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9RbU9GMGNyZHlSVT90PTE2ODA=
). It is critically important to maintain sufficient levels of
baseline dopamine to sustain day-to-day motivation. We don’t want
the baseline too low or too high.

We can establish a healthy level of baseline dopamine by:

* Viewing early morning sunlight for 10-30 minutes daily. (Don’t
wear sunglasses for this, and don’t stare at the sun; eyeglasses
and contacts are acceptable). This causes the release of
dopamine. If done consistently, it will also increase levels of
gene expression for certain dopamine receptors (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/e0hph7hk3qqpv4i8/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYmlvcnhpdi5vcmcvY29udGVudC8xMC4xMTAxLzgyNTA4M3Yx
). If you’re up to it, take a 1-3 minute cold shower, as cold as
you can safely tolerate, as well; this is known to increase
baseline dopamine for hours dramatically.
* Eat tyrosine-rich foods such as red meats, nuts or hard
fermented cheese. Tyrosine is an amino acid and a building block
of dopamine — a diet rich in tyrosine will sustain your body’s
natural dopamine production. You’ll need to consider the caloric
and other contents of these foods, of course. It’s easy to find
plant-based sources too. Simply do a web search for them.
* Avoid melatonin supplements, as these can decrease dopamine
levels and can disrupt your normal sleep patterns (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/7qh7h8h02wwkl3fz/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9oMmFXWWpTQTFKYz90PTQ1OTQ=
). Melatonin is only recommended for jet lag. There are better
options.
* Avoid viewing bright lights between 10 p.m.-4 a.m. This is
essential, as it has been shown to activate a brain region called
the habenula and drastically reduce the amount of circulating
dopamine in your system. If you must view light at these times,
make it very dim. Once in a while is okay, but don’t make it a
habit. (If you are a shift worker or want to know how to deal
with jet lag, listen to this episode (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/owhkhqh4mggk9xtv/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZmluZC15b3VyLXRlbXBlcmF0dXJlLW1pbmltdW0tdG8tZGVmZWF0LWpldGxhZy1zaGlmdC13b3JrLWFuZC1zbGVlcGxlc3NuZXNzP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
).)
* Ingest caffeine (approximately 100-400mg) in the form of
coffee, tea or whatever form you prefer. This will cause a mild
increase in dopamine but also increases the availability of
dopamine receptors, (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/z2hghnho2pp46nip/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubmF0dXJlLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy90cDIwMTU0Ng==
) so your body is more sensitive to circulating dopamine. Don’t
do this too close to sleep. I avoid caffeine after 2 p.m., with
rare exceptions.

--------------------------------
Part II: Managing Dopamine Peaks
--------------------------------

“Success breeds success” is true, but if you don’t manage the
dopamine associated with the pursuit and your wins, your dopamine
baseline and the dopamine you experience from reaching milestones
will start to diminish over time, and you’ll feel far less
satisfaction from, well, everything. This is a common problem,
but there are ways to overcome or even avoid it altogether.

Leverage the power of dopamine released by reaching milestones to
increase ongoing motivation by:

* Use (Randomly) an Intermittent Reward Timing (RIRT). This is
the most powerful schedule for dopamine release and staying
motivated. The casinos use it to take people’s money. It works
100% of the time. You can use RIRT to your advantage, to stay
motivated in any pursuit. The key is to celebrate your wins, but
do not celebrate every win. When you succeed in reaching a
milestone, sometimes enjoy that; other times (at random), just
keep going. Even better, associate “winning” with the effort
process itself. That’s the holy grail of dopamine management for
success. It won’t make you dull or unhappy; it will make
everything easier and more pleasurable, without the peaks and
valleys of dopamine that external-reward-driven people
experience, and you’ll obtain all the external rewards anyway.
* Remember that Dopamine is Subjective. Remember, the brain does
not know external rewards — no dopamine is dripped in your brain
— it only knows the associations of events with internal chemical
(in this case, dopamine) release. Don't underestimate the extent
to which the dopamine system and the sense of whether you are on
the right track are under your cognitive control. The prefrontal
cortex (the executive control portion of your brain) is part of
the dopamine pathway and provides subjective, top-down control (a
“belief effect (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/p8heh9h9wgg366sq/aHR0cHM6Ly9wdWJtZWQubmNiaS5ubG0ubmloLmdvdi8zMzczNDcyNS8=
)”) for motivation levels. These are not placebo or small
effects. Telling yourself you are moving toward your goals is a
huge stimulator of dopamine release — and under your control. Of
course, you can’t lie to yourself and say you’ve won when you
lost, but as you progress toward milestones, register it in your
mind.
* Spotlighting. Dopamine interacts with the visual system. Dr.
Emily Balcetis (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/x0hph6hnv99r20s5/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZHItZW1pbHktYmFsY2V0aXMtdG9vbHMtZm9yLXNldHRpbmctYW5kLWFjaGlldmluZy1nb2Fscz91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ldXJhbF9uZXR3b3JrJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWw=
), a professor of psychology at New York University (NYU),
discussed on the Huberman Lab Podcast how physically focusing
your visual attention on a specific point (or “spotlight”) will
help maintain focus during bouts of goal work. When you focus on
a particular point, a medley of neurochemicals (dopamine,
epinephrine and others) are recruited and put you into a state of
readiness and clear focus.
* Don’t Layer Too Many Sources of Dopamine. When we layer too
many sources of dopamine (e.g., preworkout energy drinks, plus
music, plus friends/social connections, plus nootropics also
known as "smart drugs," etc.), it can increase dopamine and our
energy and motivate us to work hard toward a goal. But stacking
all these dopamine-triggering sources causes a crash afterward,
ultimately undermining our longer-term motivation and continued
drive. Instead, try to do some workouts without music or with
just caffeine. Change it up.
* Supplement to Microspike Dopamine. There are compounds sold
over the counter that potently increase dopamine but not so much
that they cause the problems associated with illicit or
prescription (Rx) drugs that do the same. L-Tyrosine (500-1000mg)
taken 30 minutes before a mental or physical work bout will
increase focus and motivation. Some people, including me, will
take 500mg of L-Tyrosine and 300mg of Alpha-GPC (which increases
acetylcholine and, thereby, focus) prior to a hard workout or
focused cognitive work. But as mentioned in #4, I don’t do this
every day and sometimes, I use none. My favorite preworkout or
precognitive-work-bout supplement is 300mg Alpha-GPC, 500mg
Phenylethylamine and (sometimes) 500mg L-Tyrosine. (If I really
want to drop into focus and it’s early day, I chase it with
espresso!) The Huberman Lab Podcast is now partnered with
Momentous (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/6qheh8hp8nnkrgco/aHR0cDovL21vbWVudG91cy5zanYuaW8vYy8zNDA2OTc0LzE0Mzk0NzIvMTU4MjY=
) because they have superb quality and they ship internationally
(as of now, they don’t sell Phenylethylamine but hopefully will
soon). Note: Don’t take these after 2-3 p.m. if you intend to
sleep that night. Also, if you have bipolar depression or any
other dopamine-sensitive condition, be very cautious with these
dopamine-enhancing compounds. Those with ADHD may need
MD-prescribed Ritalin, Adderall or other Rx drugs, but those
without ADHD should avoid these Rx drugs merely for
“recreational” focus; they are powerful and can lead to
dependency.

By understanding and supporting your dopamine baseline and what
spikes dopamine, you can learn to regulate yours for persistent
goal-directed motivation. You don’t need to do all of the above;
the list is meant to be a buffet of options. Apply all or some,
as needed.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

Stay in touch! New episodes of the Huberman Lab Podcast are out
each Monday on YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/kkhmh6h8066dw0hl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/58hvh7h5dkkvxri6/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/25h2hoh7p44v9mb3/JTVDaHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUA==
), Google Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/qvh8h7h8moo7wlfl/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5nb29nbGUuY29tL2ZlZWQvYUhSMGNITTZMeTlvZFdKbGNtMWhibXhoWWk1c2FXSnplVzR1WTI5dEwzSnpjdw==
) and all major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/g3hnh5he866d92sr/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93P3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
). Please subscribe to those channels and provide feedback and
suggestions. New, short, actionable clips from the Huberman Lab
Podcast are available on our YouTube Clips Channel (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/9qhzhnhgvzzqw7f9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vaHViZXJtYW5sYWJjbGlwcw==
). I post additional science and science-based tools on Instagram
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/3ohphkhq544og6fr/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/n2hohvhn966808s6/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
), Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/48hvheh0d6658pbx/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
) and LinkedIn (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/reh8hohqlww2zva2/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubGlua2VkaW4uY29tL2luL2FuZHJldy1odWJlcm1hbi8=
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/6qheh8hp8nnkrgco/aHR0cDovL21vbWVudG91cy5zanYuaW8vYy8zNDA2OTc0LzE0Mzk0NzIvMTU4MjY=
)

-----------------------
Momentous Special Offer
-----------------------

We're happy to share that the Huberman Lab Podcast has partnered
with Momentous. Momentous' supplements are of the highest
quality; each is third-party tested for purity and accuracy of
dosage and they ship internationally.

Save 20% on your first order.

-->Shop Supplements (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/6qheh8hp8nnkrgco/aHR0cDovL21vbWVudG91cy5zanYuaW8vYy8zNDA2OTc0LzE0Mzk0NzIvMTU4MjY=
)
Shop Supplements (
http://momentous.sjv.io/c/3406974/1439472/15826 )

​

This newsletter was made possible by Momentous. For a special
offer, click here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/6qheh8hp8nnkrgco/aHR0cDovL21vbWVudG91cy5zanYuaW8vYy8zNDA2OTc0LzE0Mzk0NzIvMTU4MjY=
).

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/08hwh9hm6ggorkfl/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcms_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXVyYWxfbmV0d29yayZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWZvb3Rlcl90ZXh0X2xpbms=
).

You can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil )
your email preferences.

If you were forwarded this email and wish to subscribe, you can
do so here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/8ghqhohg6qq0n5uk/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcmsvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab Podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Copyright © 2022 Scicomm Media LLC. All rights reserved.

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh027zdxil/vqh3hrhn9eexrnfg/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpY29tbWVkaWEuY29tL3ByaXZhY3ktcG9saWN5P3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbCZ1dG1fY29udGVudD1mb290ZXJfdGV4dF9saW5r
)