# 6 Key Tools to Improve Your Gut Microbiome Health

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Sun, 03 Apr 2022 20:52:57 +0000*

---

This newsletter aims to provide you with actionable
information in a condensed form about how to improve your gut
microbiome health.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Podcast Neural Network—a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. This newsletter aims to provide you with
actionable information in a condensed form. It relates to a
recent episode of the Huberman Lab Podcast, "How to Enhance Your
Gut Microbiome for Brain & Overall Health (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/reh8hohq45m0kkh2/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vaG93LXRvLWVuaGFuY2UteW91ci1ndXQtbWljcm9iaW9tZS1mb3ItYnJhaW4tYW5kLW92ZXJhbGwtaGVhbHRoLz91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
)."

We all have trillions of microorganisms living inside our gut—not
just our stomach but our intesti­nes and throat and mouth, and on
our skin, in our eyes and nasal passages. Maybe that sounds bad
or gross, but… it turns out these microbiota are essential for
our immune, brain and hormone health—in part because they make
chemicals that immediately impact how the rest of our body
functions, including neurotransmitters like serotonin. The bottom
line is: we need to nurture these living microbiota cargo to best
support our mental and physical health. During Episode 62 (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/reh8hohq45m0kkh2/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vaG93LXRvLWVuaGFuY2UteW91ci1ndXQtbWljcm9iaW9tZS1mb3ItYnJhaW4tYW5kLW92ZXJhbGwtaGVhbHRoLz91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
) of the Huberman Lab Podcast, I explored the impact of the gut
on the nervous system (i.e., the gut-brain axis) and how the gut
contributes to your feelings of hunger and satiety. In Episode 63
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/08hwh9hmv72dnval/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZHItanVzdGluLXNvbm5lbmJ1cmctaG93LXRvLWJ1aWxkLW1haW50YWluLWFuZC1yZXBhaXItZ3V0LWhlYWx0aC8_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXdzbGV0dGVyJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWw=
), I interviewed Dr. Justin Sonnenburg (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/8ghqhohgz5olwdak/aHR0cHM6Ly9zb25uZW5idXJnbGFiLnN0YW5mb3JkLmVkdS8=
), Professor of Microbiology & Immunology at Stanford University,
and world expert on the microbiome to discuss how gut microbes
affect mental and physical health and how we can all improve our
gut health.

Microbiota diversity is a measurement of the number of different
species of microbiota in our gut. Low diversity is considered a
marker of dysbiosis (microbial imbalance) and has been associated
with autoimmune diseases, obesity and cardiometabolic conditions.
Below, I summarize 6 tools that can help increase microbial
diversity and improve overall gut and thereby, body and brain
health.

----------------------
#1 Eat Fermented Foods
----------------------

Dr. Sonnenburg discussed the findings of his recent human study (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/vqh3hrhnlkopmrsg/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuY2VsbC5jb20vY2VsbC9mdWxsdGV4dC9TMDA5Mi04Njc0KDIxKTAwNzU0LTY_X3JldHVyblVSTD1odHRwcyUzQSUyRiUyRmxpbmtpbmdodWIuZWxzZXZpZXIuY29tJTJGcmV0cmlldmUlMkZwaWklMkZTMDA5Mjg2NzQyMTAwNzU0NiUzRnNob3dhbGwlM0R0cnVl
), in collaboration with Dr. Chris Gardner (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/l2hehmhoekl3q9b6/aHR0cHM6Ly9wcm9maWxlcy5zdGFuZm9yZC5lZHUvY2hyaXN0b3BoZXItZ2FyZG5lcg==
) of Stanford, in which they investigated whether diets high in
plant-based fiber or fermented foods would influence the health
of the gut microbiome. Their results show that fermented foods
increased overall gut microbiota diversity, as well as reduced
key markers of inflammation (aka 'inflammatome').

​In the study (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/m2h7h5hovn3826hm/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS8xNVIycE1xVTJvaz90PTUyODY=
), participants ate six servings per day of fermented foods,
however, higher total amounts of ingested fermented foods did not
lead to further benefits. Instead, consistently incorporate
fermented foods into your daily diet to achieve better outcomes
for gut microbiome health and inflammation reduction.

Try incorporating low-sugar fermented foods into your diet, such
as sauerkraut, plain yogurt, kimchi, kombucha, natto, kefir or
even drinking brine. Find these products in the refrigerator
section to ensure there are live active cultures. (Shelf-stable
fermented foods are pasteurized, therefore, will not offer the
same boost to the gut microbiome.) Also, there are cost-effective
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/dpheh0hqv7e0dlsm/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYW1hem9uLmNvbS80LUhvdXItQ2hlZi1Db29raW5nLUxlYXJuaW5nLUFueXRoaW5nL2RwLzA1NDc4ODQ1OTE=
) ways to make your own fermented foods, such as kombucha or
sauerkraut, at home.

What About Fiber?
-----------------

In this study, a high-fiber diet did not lead to an increase in
microbiota diversity. However, high-fiber diets did increase the
amount of carbohydrate active enzymes which help digest fiber and
could further enhance the microbiome's ability to degrade other
complex carbohydrates. Additionally, some participants in the
high-fiber group showed a reduction in markers of inflammation.
Plant-based, high-fiber foods (i.e., vegetables, legumes, and
whole grains) offer significant benefits for overall health and
can help provide key nutrients for established microbiota.

-----------------------------
#2: Prebiotics and Probiotics
-----------------------------

​Prebiotics (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/7qh7h8h0q49odxsz/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9vdUNXTlJ2UGsyMD90PTc0NjA=
): fermentable dietary fiber or microbiota-accessible
carbohydrates; supplements of food for established gut microbiota

​Probiotics (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/owhkhqh4p8wrxetv/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9vdUNXTlJ2UGsyMD90PTcxNzA=
): live bacteria or yeasts that can colonize in the gut
microbiome

Synbiotics: mixtures of prebiotics and probiotics

Augmenting the gut microbiome with low levels of prebiotics
and/or probiotics while still focusing on eating whole quality
foods leads to improvement in gut microbiome health.

In cases of dysbiosis, such as after taking antibiotics, during
high periods of stress, traveling or changing your diet, higher
levels of prebiotics and/or probiotics can aid in recovery and
replenish your gut microbiome. However, the excessive intake of
probiotics has been linked (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/z2hghnhonde35gcp/aHR0cHM6Ly9qb3VybmFscy5sd3cuY29tL2N0Zy9GdWxsdGV4dC8yMDE4LzA2MDAwL0JyYWluX2ZvZ2dpbmVzcyxfZ2FzX2FuZF9ibG9hdGluZ19fYV9saW5rX2JldHdlZW4uNi5hc3B4
) to the induction of brain fog; therefore, if you experience
these symptoms, you could try to reduce the level of supplements
that you are ingesting.

Since prebiotics and probiotics are considered supplements, they
are not FDA-regulated products. When choosing a supplement, look
for an independently validated product. Finally, the gut
microbiome is uniquely personalized. Therefore, supplementation
will impact individuals differently.

---------
#3: Sleep
---------

Throughout many podcast episodes, I have emphasized the
foundational role that sleep has in overall health. As the gut
microbiome is highly attuned to the amount of stress you
experience (through direct links to cells of the immune system),
achieving the proper quality (deep) and duration (generally 6-9
hours) of sleep each night is essential to manage stress and, in
turn, to ensure gut microbiome health. See our "Toolkit for
Sleep (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/p8heh9h9m74zmksq/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdG9vbGtpdC1mb3Itc2xlZXAvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
)" (NeuralNetwork Newsletter #3) and listen to Episode 2, "Master
Your Sleep & Be More Alert When Awake (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/x0hph6hno7ewors5/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbWFzdGVyLXlvdXItc2xlZXAtYW5kLWJlLW1vcmUtYWxlcnQtd2hlbi1hd2FrZS8_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXdzbGV0dGVyJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWw=
)," for more tips on achieving better-quality sleep.

-------------------------
#4: Avoid Processed Foods
-------------------------

Foods additives are ubiquitous in processed foods. Emulsifiers,
detergent-like additives, can disrupt the mucus layer of the GI
tract. In animal models (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/dpheh0hqv7e0votm/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubmF0dXJlLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy9uYXR1cmUxNDIzMg==
), emulsifiers reduce microbial diversity, induce low-grade
inflammation, and cause an increase in body fat, higher blood
sugar levels and insulin resistance - key markers of metabolic
syndrome.

The typical Western Diet (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/e0hph7hk6n706eh8/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpZW5jZWRpcmVjdC5jb20vdG9waWNzL2FncmljdWx0dXJhbC1hbmQtYmlvbG9naWNhbC1zY2llbmNlcy93ZXN0ZXJuLWRpZXRz
) (i.e., high fat, low fiber, higher in processed foods) does not
provide gut microbiota with many of the key essential nutrients.
When you eat complex, plant-based fiber, the gut microbiota
produces fermentation by-products, such as short-chain fatty
acids (e.g., butyrate). These substances reduce inflammation,
help maintain the gut's mucosal barrier, regulate the immune
system, and modulate metabolism along the GI tract. To enhance
the health of your gut microbiome, prioritize a diet rich in
whole foods, plant-based fiber, and fermented foods.

-------------------------
#5: Artificial Sweeteners
-------------------------

Clinical studies have yet to fully tease apart the impact (if
any) that artificial sweeteners (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/7qh7h8h0q49oqptz/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS8xNVIycE1xVTJvaz90PTYwNTg=
) have on the gut microbiome. However, within animal models (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/owhkhqh4p8wrp7iv/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubmF0dXJlLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy9uYXR1cmUxMzc5Mw==
), there is evidence that artificial sweeteners can disrupt the
gut microbiome. A recent study (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/z2hghnhonde3ndsp/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubmF0dXJlLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy9zNDE1OTMtMDIxLTAwOTgyLTc=
) showed that neuropod cells in the gut can discriminate between
natural and artificial sweeteners. Further, these cells send a
unique pattern of signals to the brain, depending on whether the
sugars they sense are nutritive (i.e., contain calories) or are
non-caloric sweeteners.

An interesting finding (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/p8heh9h9m74zm9tq/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9vdUNXTlJ2UGsyMD90PTEzMTY=
) from the Human Microbiome Project (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/x0hph6hno7ewowt5/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9vdUNXTlJ2UGsyMD90PTE0Njc=
) is the high degree of individualization of the gut microbiome.
Potentially, try removing some artificial sweeteners from your
diet to see if you notice an effect and also consider that
artificial sweeteners might be capable of influencing your gut
microbiome.

*Non-caloric plant based sweeteners like stevia are probably
fine, but there have not been many studies of stevia in regards
to the microbiome.

----------------------------------------
#6: Don't Over-Sanitize Your Environment
----------------------------------------

Microbiota are present on any and all surfaces which have come
into contact with the environment. Dr. Sonnenburg notes,
"Exposure to microbes from the environment is likely an important
part of educating our immune systems and keeping everything in
the proper balance." The gut microbiome is also populated from
social interactions, including skin contact by shaking hands,
hugging, kissing etc. and interactions with pets and dirt, and
grass. Over-sanitization of our environments (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/6qheh8hpz2l7zlco/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9vdUNXTlJ2UGsyMD90PTY0NDI=
) or excessive use of antibiotics can eliminate sources of good
gut microbiota. While it is still important to eliminate the
introduction of disease-causing pathogens and harmful
environmental chemicals (e.g., pesticides), consider that many
environmental microbes play an integral role in the establishment
and maintenance of a healthy gut microbiome.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

New episodes of the Huberman Lab Podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/kkhmh6h8r9nlr6bl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/58hvh7h5q9gmq7b6/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/25h2hoh76o326nu3/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUA==
) and all major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/qvh8h7h8z6drzeil/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93Lz91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
). Please subscribe to those channels. I post additional science
and science-based tools on Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/g3hnh5herzm3rrtr/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/9qhzhnhg02dp0wt9/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
) and Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/3ohphkhq0d370ghr/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

​

​

(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/n2hohvhnmov3mpt6/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)

---------------------------------
Athletic Greens, AG1Special Offer
---------------------------------

As I often mention on the podcast, AG1 gives me additional
energy, tastes great and reassures me that I am covering my
nutritional bases regardless of how careful or consistent I am
with my whole food intake. This is the supplement I recommend
when asked, "what is the one best thing to take?" For me, taking
AG1 is a non-negotiable, everyday practice.

-->Redeem special offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/n2hohvhnmov3mpt6/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)
Redeem special offer (
https://athleticgreens.com/partner/d35ctoffer-nutrition/en?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=influencer&utm_campaign=drhuberman_nl_d35ct__a1294__o22&utm_term=variable__a1294__o22&utm_content=health__a1294__o22
)

​

This newsletter was made possible by Athletic Greens, AG1. For a
special offer, click here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/n2hohvhnmov3mpt6/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
).

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/48hvheh0v2mrvdhx/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

You can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5 )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5 )
your email preferences.

If you were forwarded this email and wish to subscribe, you can
do so here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/wnh2hghrnoqwnet7/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcmsvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab Podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Copyright © 2022 Scicomm Media LLC

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/xmu5m7pxv2a6hg546xu5/reh8hohq45m046t2/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcHJpdmFjeS1wb2xpY3kvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
)