# The Science & Use of Cold Exposure for Health & Performance

*From: Huberman Lab Neural Network <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Sun, 01 May 2022 19:15:06 +0000*

---

Done correctly, deliberate cold exposure can
positively affect brain and body health. I detail some of those
benefits and how best to access them.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Podcast Neural Network—a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-based tools for
everyday life. The purpose of this newsletter is to provide you
with actionable information in condensed form.

Episode #66 of the Huberman Lab Podcast discussed the "Use of
Deliberate Cold Exposure for Health and Performance (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/9qhzhnhg07v9lzu9/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdXNpbmctZGVsaWJlcmF0ZS1jb2xkLWV4cG9zdXJlLWZvci1oZWFsdGgtYW5kLXBlcmZvcm1hbmNlLz91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
)." Done correctly, deliberate cold exposure can positively
affect brain and body health. Below, I detail some of those
benefits and how best to access them.

------
Safety
------

Never get into a dangerous body of water. Also, never do
deliberate hyperventilation before or during cold water (or any
water!) immersion. Start slow (warmer than colder)—as cold shock
is possible; just as with lifting weights or other forms of
exercise, you'll need to find the right temperature for you, yet
prioritize safety.

---------
How cold?
---------

This is the most common question I hear, and it makes sense to
ask that. However, it is truly impossible to answer, as some
people tolerate cold better than others. The key is to aim for a
temperature that evokes the thought, "This is really cold (!),
and I want to get out, BUT I can safely stay in." For some
people, that temperature might be 60°F, whereas for others, 45°F.

Here is the key: the colder the stimulus (water immersion,
shower, etc.), the shorter amount of time you need to expose
yourself to the cold. One study showed significant and prolonged
increases in dopamine when people were in cool (60°F) water for
about an hour up to their neck, with their head above water.
Other studies describe significant increases in epinephrine from
just 20 seconds in very cold water (~40°F). The good news is that
as you do deliberate cold exposure more often, you will be more
comfortable in the cold at all times and can start to use colder
temperatures with more confidence, just like exercise.

-------------------------------
Ice bath, cold shower, or cryo?
-------------------------------

Most of the studies use ice baths or cold water­­­ immersion to
the neck. Those are best, but cold showers can work too (and are
more accessible to most). Cryo is very expensive and harder to
access and not subject to much variation in protocols, so it is
not considered here.

To Increase Energy and Focus
----------------------------

Deliberate cold exposure causes a significant release of
epinephrine (aka adrenaline) and norepinephrine (aka
noradrenaline) in the brain and body. These neurochemicals make
us feel alert and can make us feel agitated and as if we need to
move or vocalize during the cold exposure. Cold causes their
levels to stay elevated for some time and their ongoing effect
after the exposure is to increase your level of energy and focus,
which can be applied to other mental and/or physical activities.

--------------------------
Building Resilience & Grit
--------------------------

By forcing yourself to embrace the stress of cold exposure as a
meaningful self-directed challenge (i.e., stressor), you exert
what is called 'top-down control' over deeper brain centers that
regulate reflexive states. This top-down control process involves
your prefrontal cortex – an area of your brain involved in
planning and suppressing impulsivity. That 'top-down' control is
the basis of what people refer to when they talk about
"resilience and grit." Importantly, it is a skill that carries
over to situations outside of the deliberate cold environment,
allowing you to cope better and maintain a calm, clear mind when
confronted with real-world stressors. In other words, deliberate
cold exposure is great training for the mind.

-------------------
Enhancing Your Mood
-------------------

While not true of every stress, cold exposure causes the
prolonged release of dopamine. Dopamine is a powerful molecule
capable of elevating mood, enhancing focus, attention,
goal-directed behavior, etc. Even short bouts of cold exposure
can cause a lasting increase in dopamine and sustained elevation
of mood, energy, and focus. Listen to Episode #39 (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/3ohphkhq0w5znzcr/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vY29udHJvbGxpbmcteW91ci1kb3BhbWluZS1mb3ItbW90aXZhdGlvbi1mb2N1cy1hbmQtc2F0aXNmYWN0aW9uLz91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
) to learn more about dopamine's role in the body.

----------
Metabolism
----------

In the short-term, cold exposure increases metabolism as the body
has to burn calories to increase core body temperature. The total
calories burned from the cold exposure are not that significant.
However, the conversion of white fat (energy storage) to beige or
brown fat (which are highly metabolically active) can be
beneficial for:

* Allowing people to feel more comfortable in the cold (i.e.,
cold adaptation)
* Triggering further and more sustained increases in metabolism

Of course, calories on (consumed) versus calories out
(metabolized) or "CICO" governs whether you gain, lose, or
maintain weight. There is no escaping the laws of thermodynamics.

-----------------------------------------
A Solid Basic, Science-Supported Protocol
-----------------------------------------

Consider doing deliberate cold exposure for 11 minutes per week
TOTAL. NOT per session, but rather, 2-4 sessions lasting 1-5 mins
each distributed across the week. Again, the water temperature
should be uncomfortably cold yet safe to stay in for a few
minutes. You can do more, but this should be the minimum to
achieve the benefits of cold exposure. You can do very cold, very
brief exposures for adrenaline release too, but the 11 minutes is
based on a recent study that explored a range of effects and is a
good solid, basic protocol for ongoing use.

The Huberman Lab "Counting Walls" Approach
------------------------------------------

Undoubtedly, during (or before) cold exposure, you will find your
mind pushing back against the challenge. Your mind will say, "I
really don't want to do this," even before getting in, or "Get me
out of here." You can imagine those mental barriers as 'walls.'
Those walls are, in fact, the effects of adrenaline pulses in
your brain and body, which in this case is what triggers the
eventual adaptive response. After all, if it were easy, then
there is no stimulus for your body to change (adapt). By
maintaining top-down control of your reflexive urge to exit the
cold environment, you will have successfully traversed that wall.
Challenge yourself by counting walls (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/n2hohvhnmd9rkeh6/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9wcTZXSEp6T2tubz90PTIzMDg=
) and setting a goal of "walls" to traverse (e.g., 3-5 walls)
during the round of cold exposure. You can also go for time. Up
to you. The advantage of the walls approach is that it carries
over to other scenarios more seamlessly, as most of life's
stressors don't lend themselves so well to merely timing the
duration until it passes. It also enhances your sense of
mind-body connection to do it this way.

Shivering and The Søeberg Principle
-----------------------------------

The Søeberg Principle based on deliberate cold researcher Dr.
Susanna Søeberg (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/48hvheh0vodgnwtx/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9zdXNhbm5hX3NvZWJlcmcv
) is: To enhance the metabolic effects of cold, force your body
to reheat on its own. Or "End With Cold."

Also, allowing your body to shiver may enhance metabolic
increases from cold. Shivering causes the release of succinate
from muscles (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/wnh2hghrnz2g3nb7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubmF0dXJlLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy9zNDE1ODYtMDE4LTAzNTMtMg==
) and further activates brown fat thermogenesis.

Try this protocol to increase shivering, either during or
immediately after cold exposure:

Don't huddle or cross your arms while in the cold or after
getting out. Also, don't towel off. Let your body reheat and dry
off naturally. Admittedly, this is tough. Unless doing deliberate
cold exposure on a hot sunny day, admittedly, I prefer to take a
hot shower and towel dry after cold exposure, but I am no doubt
limiting the metabolic effect by doing that.

Physical Recovery
-----------------

A meta-analysis (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/reh8hohq48lxedh2/aHR0cHM6Ly9saW5rLnNwcmluZ2VyLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlLzEwLjEwMDcvczQwMjc5LTAyMi0wMTY0NC05
) of cold-water immersion effects on recovery found that cold
exposure can be a highly effective recovery tool after
high-intensity exercise or endurance training. Short interval
(The problem is that cold water immersion (but not cold showers)
can limit some of the gains in hypertrophy, strength or endurance
if done in the 4 hours or so after training. It's better to wait
6 to 8 or more hours until after training, or do it before
training UNLESS your goal is simply to recover without adaptation
(for instance, when in a competition mode and not trying to get
better, stronger, etc.)

Day or night?
-------------

After cold exposure, your body heats up—yes, HEATS up—for reasons
discussed on the Huberman Lab Podcast with Dr. Craig Heller from
Stanford (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/08hwh9hmv86zkrbl/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZHItY3JhaWctaGVsbGVyLXVzaW5nLXRlbXBlcmF0dXJlLWZvci1wZXJmb3JtYW5jZS1icmFpbi1hbmQtYm9keS1oZWFsdGgvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
). Body temperature increases tend to wake us up, whereas body
temperature decreases tend to shift us toward sleepy states.
Thus, I suggest using deliberate cold early in the day and not
too close to bedtime. Sometimes it's better to do it late than
never, but not if it perturbs your sleep. If deliberate cold
affects your sleep, try doing it earlier in the day, or not at
all.

Increasing the Resilience-Enhancing Effects of Deliberate Cold
Exposure
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Staying completely still while in cold water allows a thermal
layer to surround your body, 'insulating' you from the cold. To
be most effective as a resilience training tool, move your limbs
while keeping your hands and feet in the water. That will break
up the thermal layer and you will experience the water as (much)
colder than if you stayed still. This is also a good way to
increase the potency of a cold stimulus without having to make
the water colder. This is akin to slowing down the movement of a
weight lift to remove reduce momentum and provide more tension on
the working muscles.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

New episodes of the Huberman Lab Podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/8ghqhohgz469xvbk/aHR0cHM6Ly9jbGljay5jb252ZXJ0a2l0LW1haWwyLmNvbS8zOHVyZ3FvZDYwY2tod2VrbHZoci9ra2htaDZoOHI5bmxyNmJsL2FIUjBjSE02THk5M2QzY3VlVzkxZEhWaVpTNWpiMjB2WVc1a2NtVjNhSFZpWlhKdFlXNXNZV0k9
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/vqh3hrhnl59gd9sg/aHR0cHM6Ly9jbGljay5jb252ZXJ0a2l0LW1haWwyLmNvbS8zOHVyZ3FvZDYwY2tod2VrbHZoci81OGh2aDdoNXE5Z21xN2I2L2FIUjBjSE02THk5d2IyUmpZWE4wY3k1aGNIQnNaUzVqYjIwdmRYTXZjRzlrWTJGemRDOW9kV0psY20xaGJpMXNZV0l2YVdReE5UUTFPVFV6TVRFdw==
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/l2hehmhoegmrz8u6/aHR0cHM6Ly9jbGljay5jb252ZXJ0a2l0LW1haWwyLmNvbS8zOHVyZ3FvZDYwY2tod2VrbHZoci8yNWgyaG9oNzZvMzI2bnUzL2FIUjBjSE02THk5dmNHVnVMbk53YjNScFpua3VZMjl0TDNOb2IzY3ZOemxEYTBwR00xVktWRWhHVmpoRWMyVXpUM2t3VUE9PQ==
) and all major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/m2h7h5hovr6e74im/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93Lz91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
). Please subscribe to those channels. I post additional science
and science-based tools on Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/dpheh0hqv395m2sm/aHR0cHM6Ly9jbGljay5jb252ZXJ0a2l0LW1haWwyLmNvbS8zOHVyZ3FvZDYwY2tod2VrbHZoci9nM2huaDVoZXJ6bTNycnRyL2FIUjBjSE02THk5M2QzY3VhVzV6ZEdGbmNtRnRMbU52YlM5b2RXSmxjbTFoYm14aFlpOD0=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/e0hph7hk6x342zt8/aHR0cHM6Ly9jbGljay5jb252ZXJ0a2l0LW1haWwyLmNvbS8zOHVyZ3FvZDYwY2tod2VrbHZoci85cWh6aG5oZzAyZHAwd3Q5L2FIUjBjSE02THk5MGQybDBkR1Z5TG1OdmJTOW9kV0psY20xaGJteGhZZz09
) and Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/7qh7h8h0qg2zmgbz/aHR0cHM6Ly9jbGljay5jb252ZXJ0a2l0LW1haWwyLmNvbS8zOHVyZ3FvZDYwY2tod2VrbHZoci8zb2hwaGtocTBkMzcwZ2hyL2FIUjBjSE02THk5M2QzY3VabUZqWldKdmIyc3VZMjl0TDJoMVltVnliV0Z1YkdGaQ==
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

​

​

(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/owhkhqh4pzmo83cv/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)

-----------------
AG1 Special Offer
-----------------

As I often mention on the podcast, AG1 gives me additional
energy, tastes great and reassures me that I am covering my
nutritional bases regardless of how careful or consistent I am
with my whole food intake. This is the supplement I recommend
when asked, "what is the one best thing to take?" For me, taking
AG1 is a non-negotiable, everyday practice.

-->Redeem special offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/owhkhqh4pzmo83cv/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)
Redeem special offer (
https://athleticgreens.com/partner/d35ctoffer-nutrition/en?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=influencer&utm_campaign=drhuberman_nl_d35ct__a1294__o22&utm_term=variable__a1294__o22&utm_content=health__a1294__o22
)

​

This newsletter was made possible by AG1. For a special offer,
click here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/owhkhqh4pzmo83cv/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
).

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/z2hghnhong2wd4ap/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

You can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap )
your email preferences.

If you were forwarded this email and wish to subscribe, you can
do so here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/p8heh9h9mvwx72cq/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcmsvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab Podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Copyright © 2022 Scicomm Media LLC

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/0vuxkdw6lrs9ho02w9wap/x0hph6hnogv37zs5/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcHJpdmFjeS1wb2xpY3kvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
)