# Foundational Fitness Protocol

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Wed, 02 Nov 2022 17:39:19 +0000*

---

This newsletter aims to provide you with actionable
information in a condensed form.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Neural Network — a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. This newsletter aims to provide you with
actionable information in a condensed form.

In Episode #94 (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/6qheh8hp9ko8kqfo/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZml0bmVzcy10b29sa2l0LXByb3RvY29sLWFuZC10b29scy10by1vcHRpbWl6ZS1waHlzaWNhbC1oZWFsdGg_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXVyYWxfbmV0d29yayZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
), I outline what I call a “foundational fitness protocol” that
focuses on one key aspect of physical fitness critical for health
and longevity and aesthetic balance each day of the week. It is
designed to be modified to meet your individual needs, while
still adhering to what the best science tells us we should all do
for immediate and long-term health.

I acknowledge there is a range of best practices regarding
exercise and optimal training (e.g., listen to Dr. Andy Galpin (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/kkhmh6h8xdm05gcl/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZHItYW5keS1nYWxwaW4taG93LXRvLWJ1aWxkLXN0cmVuZ3RoLW11c2NsZS1zaXplLWFuZC1lbmR1cmFuY2U_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXVyYWxfbmV0d29yayZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
) describe the nine physical adaptations from exercise). I
designed this protocol to address all major fitness goals,
including strength, hypertrophy, endurance, and cardiovascular
training. Below, I describe the protocol, include specific
exercise suggestions (modifiable examples), and explain ways to
modify this core schedule, should you choose. I also provide tips
for integrating a consistent fitness regimen into your week, but
with flexibility.

-------------------
Resistance Training
-------------------

Two key principles for resistance training will help you get the
most out of the foundational protocol:

* Use alternative training schedules (“periodization”) to
optimize your strength and muscle hypertrophy. Alternate between
Schedule A and B monthly:* Schedule A: ~4-8 repetitions (heavier
weights) and 3-4 sets per exercise with 2-4 minutes rest between
sets
* Schedule B: ~8-15 repetitions (moderate-lighter weights) and
2-3 sets per exercise with ~90 seconds rest between sets

* Choose two exercises per muscle group. Exercise #1 should focus
on bringing the muscle into a shortened or maximally contracted
position at the end of the range of motion (e.g., leg curl,
seated calf raise, bicep preacher curl, leg extension, chest
cable crossover). Exercise #2 should focus on resistance
occurring for the muscle group when it is in a lengthened
position (e.g., standing calf raises, incline dumbbell curls,
deep squats, glute-hamstring raises or straight legged deadlifts,
incline press, etc.).

*Keep weight workouts to 50-60 minutes of hard work after a
warmup, 75 minutes maximum. This assists effectiveness and
recovery. The 75 minutes does include rest between sets and does
require not getting stuck waiting for equipment too long,
avoiding texting between sets, etc. Warm up, then get it done.

-----------------------------
Foundational Fitness Protocol
-----------------------------

I have created the following routine to encompass training for
all major physical fitness goals over the course of a week. This
protocol was also designed to target muscle groups twice per
week: one day directly and one other day indirectly.

I start with Day 1 on Sunday and end with Day 7 on Saturday;
however, modify the start day to make sense for your schedule

-->View Fitness Protocol PDF (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/58hvh7h56v7dnvb6/aHR0cHM6Ly9kb3dubG9hZC5maWxla2l0Y2RuLmNvbS9kL2diaDFjZFl0M2I0cEJXenRDRmV2WmIvYThhM0N6WllWbXJxV010UjJ2TTZTcg==
)
View Fitness Protocol PDF (
https://download.filekitcdn.com/d/gbh1cdYt3b4pBWztCFevZb/a8a3CzZYVmrqWMtR2vM6Sr
)

Protocol Modifications & Notes
------------------------------

While I have included exercise suggestions in the PDF, choose the
exercise that you can perform correctly, through a full range of
motion and with the proper form. The best exercise you can do for
a body part is one that you can perform safely. Also, adjust
according to your strengths and weaknesses. I confess I never
train my chest, but I do get enough chest training from dips.
That’s me. You should train for your needs as they relate to
aesthetic and safety needs.

Adjust the above exercise suggestions based on your fitness level
or personal goals, while keeping the range of physical goals
throughout the week. While the specific days you perform each
workout are unimportant, spacing between the days helps to ensure
proper recovery. Also, if you miss a day, you can double up on
some workouts later in the week. I sometimes swap day 4 and 5 if
I need to.

If you decide to adjust workout days, note that many studies have
found that cold submersion (i.e., ice baths) will blunt some
strength/hypertrophy improvements from that day’s training
session. Therefore, refrain from ice baths immediately after
resistance training. (It is likely that cold showers do not have
this same effect.) If you do ice baths on weight training days,
wait 6-8 hours, or do them before training.

Breathing
---------

During resistance training, lower your heart rate between sets
using physiological sighs: take two full inhales through the nose
followed by one full exhale through the mouth – trying to release
all the air in your lungs.

After a training session, use 3-5 minutes of deliberate slow
breathing to “downshift” the nervous system, relax the mind and
body and aid muscle recovery.

Flexibility
-----------

Holding static stretches is the best way to improve your overall
flexibility. Hold each major muscle group in a static stretch for
30-60 seconds and repeat between 3x/week and daily. I do this at
night before sleep or while waiting for dinner to cook or
(confession!) while on work calls. While holding the stretch,
long exhales will further relax muscles and deepen the stretch.

Training Fast vs. Fed
---------------------

This is up to your personal preference. I like to train fasted
and before noon but after drinking caffeine, water and
electrolytes, because I don’t feel sluggish during workouts, but
if you just ate a meal and time is limited, it’s more important
to get in the workout than not to train. Some people prefer to
train after eating. It's very individual. I don’t weight train at
night because it keeps me awake. Cardio does not seem to have the
same effect on me.

Training Obstacles
------------------

While consistent training is the goal, there are likely
real-world obstacles you will face:

* Illness/Cold: Sometimes, with mild cold symptoms, a short,
lighter training (decreasing duration and/or intensity of the
workout by 50% or more) will help you feel better. However,
skipping training and allowing yourself time to recover, if you
are truly sick, is better. Once recovered, slowly ramp back up to
your training program over 3-7 days.
* Poor Sleep/Stressful Events: Consider skipping your workout if
you are under chronic stress unless you think it can help you
reset. Focus on getting a good night’s sleep or relaxing, and
double up on workouts later in the week.* Also, try 10-30 minutes
of Non-Sleep Deep Rest (NSDR) (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/25h2hoh7mvdp88t3/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9BS0dybVk4T1NITQ==
) to feel more refreshed. Afterward, you might feel up for the
scheduled workout.
* For additional tools for stress, see this episode (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/qvh8h7h8k7nm4vbl/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdG9vbHMtZm9yLW1hbmFnaW5nLXN0cmVzcy1hbmQtYW54aWV0eT91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ldXJhbF9uZXR3b3JrJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWw=
).

Hopefully, this foundational fitness protocol will provide you
with a framework for physical goals that you can modify based on
your schedule, fitness level and personal goals.

Supplements
-----------

While supplements are not necessary, many people—including
myself—derive tremendous benefits from them. Here are some to
keep in mind, given their effects on physical performance and
muscle recovery.

* Alpha-GPC: 300mg, 30-60 minutes before key workouts. Alpha-GPC
promotes the release of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter
involved in memory, attention and skeletal muscle contraction. It
has been shown to increase power output in athletes.
* L-Tyrosine: 500mg, 30-60 minutes before key workouts.
L-Tyrosine is an amino acid that can increase the production of
dopamine and related neurotransmitters that positively impact
energy, motivation and mood. Thus, L-Tyrosine is a powerful tool
for enhancing exercise performance.
* Creatine: 5g daily. Creatine is a molecule that stores
high-energy phosphate groups that ultimately lead to the
regeneration of ATP, the primary energy carrier in the body. In
thousands of studies, creatine has been shown to effectively
increase exercise performance.
* Whey Protein: 40g, 30-60 minutes after workout. Whey protein is
a well-absorbed source of protein that is useful for post-workout
fueling. Research shows that consuming whey protein benefits
muscle gain and fat loss, particularly post workout.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

New episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/g3hnh5heqdp8locr/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/3ohphkhqpoz52dbr/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/n2hohvhn78r9xnc6/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUA==
), Google Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/48hvheh0x5gdprbx/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5nb29nbGUuY29tL2ZlZWQvYUhSMGNITTZMeTlvZFdKbGNtMWhibXhoWWk1c2FXSnplVzR1WTI5dEwzSnpjdw==
) and all major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/wnh2hghr05g2kqf7/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93P3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
). New, short, actionable clips from the Huberman Lab podcast are
available on our YouTube Clips Channel (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/08hwh9hmloz69zhl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vaHViZXJtYW5sYWJjbGlwcw==
). I post additional science and science-based tools on Instagram
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/8ghqhohgr0962kck/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/l2hehmhox0rmneb6/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
), Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/m2h7h5ho4ge6q5hm/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
), LinkedIn (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/dpheh0hqp459onhm/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubGlua2VkaW4uY29tL2luL2FuZHJldy1odWJlcm1hbi8=
) and TikTok (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/e0hph7hkrp43lgf8/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cudGlrdG9rLmNvbS9AaHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/7qh7h8h0nkz262hz/aHR0cHM6Ly9tb21lbnRvdXMuc2p2LmlvL2MvMzQwNjk3NC8xNDg3ODMyLzE1ODI2
)

-----------------------
Momentous Special Offer
-----------------------

We're happy to share that Huberman Lab has partnered with
Momentous. Momentous' supplements are of the highest quality;
each is third-party tested for purity and accuracy of dosage and
they ship internationally.

Save 20% on your first order.

-->Shop Supplements (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/7qh7h8h0nkz262hz/aHR0cHM6Ly9tb21lbnRvdXMuc2p2LmlvL2MvMzQwNjk3NC8xNDg3ODMyLzE1ODI2
)
Shop Supplements (
https://momentous.sjv.io/c/3406974/1487832/15826 )

​

This newsletter was made possible by Momentous. For a special
offer, click here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/owhkhqh4qkom62tv/aHR0cDovL21vbWVudG91cy5zanYuaW8vYy8zNDA2OTc0LzE0Mzk0NzIvMTU4MjY=
).

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/z2hghnhol4w2klcp/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcms_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXVyYWxfbmV0d29yayZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWZvb3Rlcl90ZXh0X2xpbms=
).

You can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6 )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6 )
your email preferences.

If you were forwarded this email and wish to subscribe, you can
do so here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/p8heh9h9q3xw2phq/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcmsvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

Disclaimer: Huberman Lab is for general informational purposes
only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing or
other professional health care services, including the giving of
medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is formed. The
use of information on this podcast or materials linked from this
podcast is at the user's own risk. The content of this podcast is
not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice,
diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in
obtaining medical advice for any medical condition they may have
and should seek the assistance of their health care professionals
for any such conditions.

Copyright © 2022 Scicomm Media LLC. All rights reserved.

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/r8uk0p826oaoh2v3v6kb6/x0hph6hnqr3vpmi5/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpY29tbWVkaWEuY29tL3ByaXZhY3ktcG9saWN5P3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbCZ1dG1fY29udGVudD1mb290ZXJfdGV4dF9saW5r
)