# 5 Science-Based Steps to Improve Your Workspace

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Thu, 17 Mar 2022 19:24:20 +0000*

---

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Podcast Neural Network—a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. This newsletter aims to provide you with some
actionable information in a condensed form. It relates to a
recent episode of the Huberman Lab Podcast, “Optimizing Workspace
for Productivity, Focus, & Creativity (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/m2h7h5ho2d3pg9sm/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vb3B0aW1pemluZy13b3Jrc3BhY2UtZm9yLXByb2R1Y3Rpdml0eS1mb2N1cy1hbmQtY3JlYXRpdml0eS8_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXdzbGV0dGVyJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWw=
).”

Regardless of where we work—at home, in an office, in cafes, or
elsewhere—we can all do a few simple things to our work
environment to optimize our productivity. Below is a short list
of the most effective things—none of which require purchasing any
products or equipment. Anyone can use these tools to:

* Maintain alertness and focus longer.
* Improve posture and reduce pain (neck, back, pelvic floor,
etc).
* Tap into specific states of mind (creativity, logic, etc.) for
the sake of work.

----------------
1. Sit or Stand?
----------------

Many people favor standing desks. Others prefer to sit. The data
on this (yes, there are quality peer-reviewed studies on the
matter; we discuss (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/m2h7h5ho2d3pg9sm/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vb3B0aW1pemluZy13b3Jrc3BhY2UtZm9yLXByb2R1Y3Rpdml0eS1mb2N1cy1hbmQtY3JlYXRpdml0eS8_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXdzbGV0dGVyJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWw=
) those and link to them in the Huberman Lab Podcast episode on
optimizing your workspace) indicate that the best approach is:
both! It is best to arrange your desk and workspace so that you
can work sitting for some period of time—10-30 minutes or so for
most people, and then shift to work standing for 10-30 minutes,
and then go back to sitting. Research also shows that it’s a good
idea to take a 5-15 minute stroll after every 45 minutes of work.
You do not need to purchase a standing desk. A very accomplished
academic (MD, PhD, member of the National Academy of Sciences)
colleague has maintained tremendous productivity for decades by
simply placing a box and a few books on their desk to create a
simple, effective sit-stand desk. I use a shallow angle drafting
table and then move to a regular desk and back again
approximately every 30 minutes. There is evidence that such a
sit-stand approach can reduce neck and shoulder and back pain and
even help augment some of the positive effects of exercise—which
we should all be doing too, of course.

A note about treadmill and cycling desks:

Active workstations are better for some tasks but worse for
others. Improvements in attention and cognition can be observed
in people using active workstations versus seated workstations.
However, verbal memory scores were worse in people using active
workstations.

----------------
2. Time It Right
----------------

We are not the same person across the different hours of the day,
at least not neurochemically. I call the first part of your day
(~0-8 hours after waking up) “Phase 1 (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/e0hph7hkm87gp2s8/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9aZTJwYzZOd3NIUT90PTYwMg==
).” During this phase, the chemicals norepinephrine, cortisol,
and dopamine are elevated in your brain and body. Alertness can
be further heightened by sunlight viewing, caffeine and fasting.
Phase 1 is ideal for analytic “hard” thinking and any work that
you find particularly challenging. It isn’t just about getting
the most important stuff out of the way; it is about leveraging
your natural biology toward the best type of work for the
biological state you are in.

“Phase 2 (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/7qh7h8h0dr97k4sz/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9aZTJwYzZOd3NIUT90PTk2MA==
)”: is ~9-16 hours after waking. At this time, serotonin levels
are relatively elevated, which lends itself to a somewhat more
relaxed state of being—optimal for brainstorming and creative
work.

“Phase 3 (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/owhkhqh4x2wvk4av/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9aZTJwYzZOd3NIUT90PTExODU=
)”: ~17-24 hours after waking up is when you should be asleep or
try to sleep. During this phase, do no hard thinking or work
unless, of course, you must (cramming for an exam or deadline
comes to mind), keep your environment dark or very dim and the
room temperature low (your body needs to drop in temperature to
fall asleep and stay asleep).

-------------------------------------------------------
3. Place Your Screen (and Vision) in the Right Location
-------------------------------------------------------

There’s a relationship between where we look and our level of
alertness. When looking down toward the ground, neurons related
to calm and sleepiness are activated. Looking up does the
opposite. This might seem wild, but it makes sense based on the
neural circuits that control looking up or down.

Standing and sitting up straight while looking at a screen or
book that is elevated to slightly above eye level will generate
maximal levels of alertness. To get your screen at or above eye
level and not work while looking down at your screen may take a
bit of configuring your workspace, but it’s worth it for the
benefits to your mind and work.

------------------------------------------------------------
4. Get the Background (Sounds) Right for Optimal Work Output
------------------------------------------------------------

Some people like to work in silence, whereas others prefer
background noise. Some kinds of background noise are particularly
good for our work output. Working with white, pink, or brown
noise in the background can be good for work bouts of up to 45
minutes but not for work bouts that last hours. So, use it from
time to time. These are easy to find (and zero-cost) on YouTube
or in various apps (search by “white (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/z2hghnho5qev43ip/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vcmVzdWx0cz9zZWFyY2hfcXVlcnk9d2hpdGUrbm9pc2U=
), pink (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/p8heh9h9rn4034hq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vcmVzdWx0cz9zZWFyY2hfcXVlcnk9cGluaytub2lzZQ==
), or brown (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/x0hph6hnk5e6r9b5/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vcmVzdWx0cz9zZWFyY2hfcXVlcnk9YnJvd24rbm9pc2U=
) noise”).

Binaural beats are a neat science-supported tool to place the
brain into a better state for learning. As the name suggests,
binaural beats consist of one sound (frequency) being played in
one ear and a different sound frequency in the other ear. It only
works with headphones. Binaural beats (around 40 Hz) have been
shown to increase certain aspects of cognition, including
creativity and may reduce anxiety. The exact mechanisms are still
under investigation, but the effects are impressive. I review the
data in detail here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/dpheh0hqdleg45am/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9aZTJwYzZOd3NIUT90PTM3NDA=
). 40 Hz binaural beats can be found in various apps, many of
which are zero-cost.

---------------------
5. Get the Room Right
---------------------

There is an interesting effect of workspace optimization called
the “Cathedral Effect (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/e0hph7hkm87gp5i8/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbS9ib29rcy9lZGl0aW9uL1VuaXZlcnNhbF9QcmluY2lwbGVzX29mX0Rlc2lnbl9SZXZpc2VkX2EvbDBRUEVDR1F5U1lDP2hsPWVuJmdicHY9MA==
),” in which thinking becomes “smaller"—more focused on analytic
processing, when we are in small visual fields. The opposite is
also true. In short, working in high ceiling spaces elicits
abstract thoughts and creativity, whereas working in low ceiling
spaces promotes detailed work. Even relatively small differences
(a two-foot discrepancy in ceiling height) have been shown (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/7qh7h8h0dr97kdtz/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuanN0b3Iub3JnL3N0YWJsZS8xMC4xMDg2LzUxOTE0Ng==
) to elicit such differences. The takeaway: consider using
different locations: rooms, buildings, indoors or outdoors to
help access specific brain states and the types of work they
favor.

-----------
Conclusions
-----------

These are just some ways to optimize your workspace and of
course, people differ in their ability to tolerate clutter,
noise, etc. Some people find they need silence early in the day
and love to work to music in the later day, or vice versa, but
these five tools are among the top science-supported ones that I
believe all people can benefit from experimenting with.

New episodes of the Huberman Lab Podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/owhkhqh4x2wvkptv/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/z2hghnho5qev46hp/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/p8heh9h9rn403oaq/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUA==
) and all major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/x0hph6hnk5e6r6s5/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93Lz91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
). Please subscribe to those channels.

I post additional science and science-based tools on Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/6qheh8hpxmlgk8io/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/kkhmh6h8zknqdkul/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
) and Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/58hvh7h53rg8v6u6/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

​

​

(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/25h2hoh7lk3zvqb3/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)

---------------------------------
Athletic Greens, AG1Special Offer
---------------------------------

As I often mention on the podcast, AG1 gives me additional
energy, tastes great and reassures me that I am covering my
nutritional bases regardless of how careful or consistent I am
with my whole food intake. This is the supplement I recommend
when asked, "what is the one best thing to take?" For me, taking
AG1 is a non-negotiable, everyday practice.

-->Redeem special offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/25h2hoh7lk3zvqb3/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)
Redeem special offer (
https://athleticgreens.com/partner/d35ctoffer-nutrition/en?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=influencer&utm_campaign=drhuberman_nl_d35ct__a1294__o22&utm_term=variable__a1294__o22&utm_content=health__a1294__o22
)

​

This newsletter was made possible by Athletic Greens, AG1. For a
special offer, click here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/25h2hoh7lk3zvqb3/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
).

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/qvh8h7h8e9d573tl/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

You can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil )
your email preferences.

If you were forwarded this email and wish to subscribe, you can
do so here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/g3hnh5heg4m5dvsr/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcmsvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

View our privacy policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/8ku5e8qk09aoh494qvil/9qhzhnhg4odm6kb9/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcHJpdmFjeS1wb2xpY3kvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

The Huberman Lab Podcast is distinct from Dr. Huberman's teaching
and research roles at Stanford University School of Medicine. The
information provided on the podcast, social media posts and
newsletters is not medical advice, nor should it be taken or
applied as a replacement for medical advice. The Huberman Lab
Podcast, its employees, guests and affiliates assume no liability
for the application of the information discussed.

Copyright © 2022 Scicomm Media Inc. All rights reserved.