# Build or Break Habits Using Science-Based Tools

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Sun, 30 Jan 2022 00:33:03 +0000*

---

This month, I want to provide you with actionable
information in a condensed form about habits: how to form habits
and how to break them.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast Neural Network—a once-a-month
newsletter with science and science-related tools for everyday
life.

This month, I want to provide you with actionable information in
a condensed form about habits: how to form habits and how to
break them.

I learned so much researching the science of habit for Episode 53
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/owhkhqh45o9pdocv/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdGhlLXNjaWVuY2Utb2YtbWFraW5nLWFuZC1icmVha2luZy1oYWJpdHMvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
), “The Science of Making & Breaking Habits.” Much of that was
counterintuitive, but it works. I know this based on my own
experience and from the feedback I’ve been receiving from
listeners.

During the episode, I describe two program frameworks for habits
that are aligned with our biology and neurochemistry, which makes
forming great habits and breaking bad habits much easier. They
work best when combined.

-----------------------------------
Part A: Huberman Lab Habits Program
-----------------------------------

Adjusting habits requires overcoming what I call “limbic
friction” (energy to overcome anxiety, procrastination and/or
fatigue). You’ll want to leverage the natural rhythms of your
brain and body to make it more likely that you will engage or
maintain habits. This is made easy by dividing each 24-hour
day-night cycle into three phases.

Phase 1
-------

The first 0-8 hours after waking. Your brain and body are more
action and focus oriented in Phase 1 due to elevated dopamine,
adrenaline and cortisol levels). It’s easier to overcome limbic
friction. Note: We are also more prone to distraction and
reflexive multitasking at this time. Don’t succumb to that.

Set 1-4 habits for completion in Phase 1. These should be the
habits that require energy and focus. Setting a window for
completion (e.g., 45 min of focused reading, work, etc. in Phase
1) rather than a precise start and stop time lends flexibility to
your schedule. For example, you might elect to exercise or write
or study “after waking but before noon,” meaning it can be done
at 8 a.m., 10 a.m. or 11 a.m. but definitely in Phase 1. Of
course, if you can do it at the same time each day, great, but
setting a broader window of opportunity can help given busy
lives.

Phase 2
-------

In the 9-15 hours after waking. Leverage your naturally higher
serotonin levels and lower adrenaline, and engage in habits that
don’t require you to overcome much limbic friction.

This is an excellent time for behaviors and thinking that can be
completed with less focus. The sort that involves creative
exploration is perfect: writing fiction, rough drafts, writing
music, play of any kind, experimentation. Or lower-focus
requirement physical pursuits like Zone 2 cardio. Whereas Phase 1
is terrific for habit where precise execution is needed, Phase 2
is best for looser things—trying a new recipe, brainstorming,
exploring a new approach to some aspect of work, a physical
pursuit, relationships or learning.

Again, as stated in Episode 53 (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/z2hghnho0w6nx0sp/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9XY3MyUEZ6NXE2Zz90PTkyNw==
): “A lot of habit formation has to do with being in the right
state of mind and being able to control your body and mind.”

Phase 3
-------

It is the 16-24 hours after waking. This is when we reset our
ability to overcome limbic friction by, you guessed it, resting
and sleeping. See our “Toolkit for Sleep (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/p8heh9h98x6moruq/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdG9vbGtpdC1mb3Itc2xlZXAvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
)” (Neural Network Newsletter #3)and Episode 2, “Master Your
Sleep & Be More Alert When Awake (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/x0hph6hnx32o0ob5/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbWFzdGVyLXlvdXItc2xlZXAtYW5kLWJlLW1vcmUtYWxlcnQtd2hlbi1hd2FrZS8_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXdzbGV0dGVyJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWw=
),” for details on how to master Phase 3 but in short:

* Avoid bright lights
* Sleep in a cool, dark room
* Explore supplementation (not melatonin) if needed

-----------------------------------------------------------
Part B: Program and Test Habit Change in Alternating Blocks
-----------------------------------------------------------

Based on my read of the literature, I suggest people pick six new
habits to incorporate per day for 21 days, write them down and
then aim to complete four to six of those per day. Mark them off
each day on your calendar.

Do not fret about only doing four out of six of the new habits
per day, and never compensate by doing more than six per day. A
no-compensation system is best.

Merge this approach with the Phase 1, 2, 3 structure above to be
in the best position to succeed. How will you know if you are
succeeding? Take the next 21 days and track your behavior but not
incorporating new habits.

So that’s 21 days of habit formation and 21 days of testing to
see which habits actually became habits, then back to 21 days of
habit formation, using your progress in the previous 21 days to
determine if you can add more to your four to six per day list.

How do you know if you made a new habit?

The strength of a habit is dictated by how much limbic friction
you need to overcome to perform the behavior and how much
context-dependence there is—meaning, do you perform the habit no
matter what or only when calm, rested or in the presence of
others, caffeinated, etc.

-----------------------
Part C: Breaking Habits
-----------------------

This is simple (alas, not always easy):

To break a habit, you need to bring conscious awareness to the
fact that you participated in the habit you are trying to break.
Then, when you realize you did, you need to engage in positive
behavior immediately afterward. The specific behavior is less
important than the fact that it comes immediately after the habit
you’re trying to break and that it not be a negative behavior.
Ten jumping jacks or pushups are good do-anywhere (yes anywhere),
positive behaviors. Positive because they are good for us, not
because we necessarily enjoy them.

-----------
Final Notes
-----------

The science behind these approaches, including “task bracketing”
and various review articles in quality peer-reviewed journals are
in the caption (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/owhkhqh45o9pdocv/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdGhlLXNjaWVuY2Utb2YtbWFraW5nLWFuZC1icmVha2luZy1oYWJpdHMvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
) to this episode.

New episodes of The Huberman Lab Podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/dpheh0hqr56vn6bm/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/e0hph7hk54v6ooh8/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/7qh7h8h03zlq57iz/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUD9zaT0zZGIxNGQxOTEyNjA0ZWMy
) and other major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/z2hghnho0w6nxqtp/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93Lz91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
). Please subscribe to those channels. We also launched a clips
channel (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/p8heh9h98x6moqbq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vY2hhbm5lbC9VQ2taalRaTnZ1eHExQ1lNUzNjd1phMVE=
), where we’ll post short segments from the episodes. I post
additional science and science-based tools on Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/x0hph6hnx32o04s5/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
) and Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/6qheh8hp0orze4so/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
).

Thank you for your interest in science,Andrew

(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/dpheh0hqr56vn6bm/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
) (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/kkhmh6h84mwrv7al/aHR0cHM6Ly9mYWNlYm9vay5jb20vaHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
) (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/58hvh7h5l7xq8ph6/aHR0cHM6Ly9pbnN0YWdyYW0uY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
) (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/6qheh8hp0orze4so/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
) (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/e0hph7hk54v6ooh8/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
) (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/25h2hoh7nd96zvu3/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUD9zaT0zYzE1NDBjZWY4ZjU0YWU5
) (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/g3hnh5hexp9r5ntr/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubGlua2VkaW4uY29tL2luL2FuZHJldy1odWJlcm1hbi8=
) (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/9qhzhnhgn9w0m3b9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cucGF0cmVvbi5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW4=
)

​

--------------------
Athletic Greens, AG1
--------------------

Special Offer

​

​
As I often mention on the podcast, AG1 gives me additional
energy, tastes great and reassures me that I am covering my
nutritional bases regardless of how careful or consistent I am
with my whole food intake. This is the supplement I recommend
when asked, "what is the one best thing to take?" For me, taking
AG1 is a non-negotiable, everyday practice.

-->Redeem special offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/3ohphkhqvzm0lncr/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)
Redeem special offer (
https://athleticgreens.com/partner/d35ctoffer-nutrition/en?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=influencer&utm_campaign=drhuberman_nl_d35ct__a1294__o22&utm_term=variable__a1294__o22&utm_content=health__a1294__o22
)​

This newsletter was made possible by Athletic Greens, AG1. For a
special offer, click here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/3ohphkhqvzm0lncr/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
).

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/n2hohvhnerqmpos6/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

You can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq )
your email preferences.

If you were forwarded this email and wish to subscribe, you can
do so here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/48hvheh0kglve0ax/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcmsvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

View our privacy policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/p9u8rmelqka9he8e89sq/wnh2hghr8g7npwi7/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcHJpdmFjeS1wb2xpY3kvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

The Huberman Lab Podcast is distinct from Dr. Huberman's teaching
and research roles at Stanford University School of Medicine. The
information provided on the podcast, social media posts and
newsletters is not medical advice, nor should it be taken or
applied as a replacement for medical advice. The Huberman Lab
Podcast, its employees, guests and affiliates assume no liability
for the application of the information discussed.

Copyright © 2022 Scicomm Media Inc. All rights reserved.