# Deliberate Heat Exposure Protocols for Health & Performance

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Wed, 01 Jun 2022 16:55:48 +0000*

---

I outline three protocols that use deliberate heat
exposure as a powerful means to improve health, mood, and
longevity.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Podcast Neural Network—a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. The purpose of this newsletter is to provide
you with actionable information in condensed form.

In many episodes and guest interviews, I have discussed the
benefits of deliberate heat exposure for overall health, improved
mood, adjusted hormone levels, and athletic performance and
recovery. Episode 69 (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/dpheh0hq6lw83qtm/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdGhlLXNjaWVuY2UtYW5kLWhlYWx0aC1iZW5lZml0cy1vZi1kZWxpYmVyYXRlLWhlYXQtZXhwb3N1cmUvP3V0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWwmdXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXdzbGV0dGVy
) was a deep dive into the scientific literature about what the
specific mechanisms are by which heat can positively impact the
body and brain. I also outlined specific protocols aimed at
providing specific goal outcomes. Below, I detail the key
takeaways from that episode and outline three protocols that use
deliberate heat exposure as a powerful means to improve health,
mood, and longevity.

---------------------
Safety Considerations
---------------------

When done correctly, heat exposure offers tremendous benefits.
However, it is extremely dangerous to use temperatures that are
too hot. What is too hot? That will depend, but in general,
pregnant women and children younger than 16 should not sauna.
Start slow—using cooler temperatures that don’t significantly
increase heart rate. Hyperthermia (abnormally high body
temperature) and dehydration are always possible, so proceed with
caution. Also, for men trying to conceive children, please know
that repeated deliberate heat exposure can reduce sperm count.
The counts rebound after cessation of sauna/hot bath use, but
that can take ~45-60 days. Men wishing to avoid sperm count
reductions due to heat may opt to apply a cool or cold pack while
in the sauna; this is not possible in a hot bath/tub, for obvious
reasons.

There are many ways to access controlled deliberate exposure to
heat, including dry saunas, steam saunas, hot tubs, hot showers,
or by simply increasing body temperature by wearing warm layers
of clothes during a brief jog. Pick whatever method or methods
you can routinely work into your schedule and that match your
budget. Note: Recently, the use of infrared saunas has become
popular. Currently, there is insufficient evidence of their
having additional effects beyond those of a standard sauna, and
more importantly, most infrared saunas do not reach the heat
ranges outlined below for positive health effects.

---------------------
Cardiovascular Health
---------------------

Regular use of sauna can improve cardiovascular health. Laukkanen
et al (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/e0hph7hkv8wqx0u8/aHR0cHM6Ly9ibWNtZWRpY2luZS5iaW9tZWRjZW50cmFsLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy8xMC4xMTg2L3MxMjkxNi0wMTgtMTE5OC0w
). found that through regular use of sauna, participants reduced
their risk of cardiovascular events/stroke that led to death.
This paper found that increasing the frequency and length of
sauna sessions subsequently decreased the long-term risk of
cardiovascular disease. Further, the use of sauna has been
studied by other clinical groups and positively correlated with a
reduction in “all‑cause mortality”—a catchall term referring to
death from any cause.

Heat will trigger some of the same mechanisms in the brain and
body as if you were physically engaged in cardiovascular
exercise. While in the sauna, heart rate and blood flow increase,
and blood vessels will vasodilate (expand) as your body works to
cool down in order to regulate body temperature.

-------------------------------------------
Protocol #1—Sauna for Cardiovascular Health
-------------------------------------------

In order to use sauna to benefit cardiovascular health, try the
following protocol. Heat the sauna to a temperature in the range
of 80-100 ℃; 176-212 ℉. NOTE: Your personal heat tolerance should
determine the actual temperature. Try to stay in the sauna
anywhere from 5 to 20 minutes per session and repeat the use of
the sauna from 2 to 3x per week, or as often as 7x per week. More
often does appear to be better with respect to cardiovascular
health.

Improved Mood
-------------

Saunas have traditional roots in Scandinavian cultures. For
centuries, many who regularly use sauna have noticed a
correlation between their sauna use and improved mood. The body
responds to heat with a release of dynorphins and endorphins in
the brain; dynorphins at first cause discomfort and agitation but
biochemically set the stage for endorphins to have enhanced
effects on our mood and body, which is why after sauna we feel a
mild, happy euphoria.

Improved Stress Response & Overall Health
-----------------------------------------

Hormesis is mild, tolerable stress that stimulates the body and
helps it to positively adapt. Hormesis can take many forms, and
heat is one such form. Studies have found that the regular use of
sauna can decrease cortisol levels (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/7qh7h8h0lrpwg9sz/aHR0cHM6Ly9qb3VybmFscy5zYWdlcHViLmNvbS9kb2kvMTAuMTE3Ny8xNTU3OTg4MzIxMTAwODMzOQ==
); enhance the activation of DNA repair/longevity pathways; and
increase the activation of unique heat-dependent molecular
mechanisms, termed Heat Shock Proteins (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/z2hghnho6qrpgwbp/aHR0cHM6Ly9tZXJpZGlhbi5hbGxlbnByZXNzLmNvbS9qYXQvYXJ0aWNsZS80Ny8yLzE4NC8xMTEyNjgvSGVhdC1TdHJlc3MtYW5kLUNhcmRpb3Zhc2N1bGFyLUhvcm1vbmFsLWFuZC1IZWF0
), which help monitor and possibly repair protein structure
within our cells. The integrity of protein structures is vital to
our health and wellbeing.

------------------------------------
Protocol #2—Sauna for General Health
------------------------------------

In order to gain the benefits of deliberate heat exposure for
general health, including improved mood, stress management, and
the enhancement of the body’s hormetic (mild stress) response
pathways, use sauna for a total of 1 hour per week, but not all
at once. Rather, split that into 2 to 3 sessions. (The sauna
temperature should be between 80-100 ℃; 176-212 ℉).

--------------
Growth Hormone
--------------

Growth Hormone plays a key role in stimulating muscle growth,
strengthening bones, repairing tissue, and increasing metabolism.
(Learn more about Growth Hormone in this episode (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/p8heh9h96n5gv8hq/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vaG93LXRvLWNvbnRyb2wteW91ci1tZXRhYm9saXNtLWJ5LXRoeXJvaWQtYW5kLWdyb3d0aC1ob3Jtb25lLz91dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlcg==
) of the Huberman Lab Podcast). Growth Hormone is released at
night while we sleep. Unfortunately, as we age, there is a
decline in the amount of natural Growth Hormone. Occasional use
of specific sauna protocols, however, has been shown to
dramatically boost the amount of Growth Hormone released (up to
16-fold (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/x0hph6hn25d9gkc5/aHR0cHM6Ly9vbmxpbmVsaWJyYXJ5LndpbGV5LmNvbS9kb2kvMTAuMTExMS9qLjE3NDgtMTcxNi4xOTg2LnRiMDgwMDAueA==
) in one study!).

--------------------------------------------
Protocol #3—Sauna for Growth Hormone Release
--------------------------------------------

To use sauna for improved release of Growth Hormone, use the
sauna infrequently (once per week or less). However, those days
you do sauna, you will be in the sauna for multiple sessions of
30 minutes each with cool down periods in between. Peer-reviewed
research says this protocol works well to increase growth
hormone: 30 minutes in sauna, then cool off outside sauna for 5
minutes, then 30 minutes more in sauna, then cool off. A few
hours (or more) later in the day, you repeat that for a total of
four 30-minute sessions of sauna in one day (that’s a lot!)

In order to get maximum Growth Hormone release, use the sauna in
a semi-fasted state (having not ingested food for 2 to 3 hours
prior). Lower blood glucose levels encourage Growth Hormone
release—this is also true for daily Growth Hormone release during
sleep. (Listen (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/e0hph7hkv8wqxvb8/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS94N3FiSmVSeFdHdz90PTMyMjA=
) for more tips to encourage daily Growth Hormone release.)
Again, this protocol works best if only used once every week or
so. More frequent sauna has other effects but will blunt the
Growth Hormone-increasing effects.

To further increase metabolic gains, alternate periods of sauna
with deliberate cold exposure during the rest periods. Read more
about specific protocols for cold exposure (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/7qh7h8h0lrpwg5tz/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdXNpbmctZGVsaWJlcmF0ZS1jb2xkLWV4cG9zdXJlLWZvci1oZWFsdGgtYW5kLXBlcmZvcm1hbmNlLz91dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlcg==
).

-------------------
Protocol—Other Tips
-------------------

Remember to hydrate well before and after you use the sauna.
Sweat is made of water and other important electrolytes. Drink at
least 16 ounces of water for every 10 minutes you spend in the
sauna.

Throughout the day, body temperature fluctuates in sync with your
natural circadian rhythm. Using the sauna during the
afternoon/evening will help match your body’s natural cooling
with the “post-cooling sauna effect” in order to aid in falling
asleep at night.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

New episodes of the Huberman Lab Podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/owhkhqh492lgzvhv/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/p8heh9h96n5gvnaq/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEwP2l0c2N0PXBvZGNhc3RfYm94X2xpbmsmaXRzY2c9MzAyMDAmbHM9MQ==
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/6qheh8hprm6nq3fo/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUD9zaT0yMTY4YjlmODcyMjE0NTI1
), and all major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/58hvh7h5xrokeea6/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93Lz91dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlcg==
). Please subscribe to those channels. I post additional science
and science-based tools on Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/g3hnh5he94op7lbr/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/3ohphkhqme9z69ar/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
) and Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/48hvheh0l4qgz2hx/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/reh8hohqdgvx90i2/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)

-----------------
AG1 Special Offer
-----------------

As I often mention on the podcast, AG1 gives me additional
energy, tastes great and reassures me that I am covering my
nutritional bases regardless of how careful or consistent I am
with my whole food intake. This is the supplement I recommend
when asked, "what is the one best thing to take?" For me, taking
AG1 is a non-negotiable, everyday practice.

-->Redeem special offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/reh8hohqdgvx90i2/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)
Redeem special offer (
https://athleticgreens.com/partner/d35ctoffer-nutrition/en?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=influencer&utm_campaign=drhuberman_nl_d35ct__a1294__o22&utm_term=variable__a1294__o22&utm_content=health__a1294__o22
)

​

This newsletter was made possible by AG1. For a special offer,
click here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/reh8hohqdgvx90i2/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
).

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/8ghqhohgdmp9eqbk/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

You can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp )
your email preferences.

If you were forwarded this email and wish to subscribe, you can
do so here (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/e0hph7hkv8w49vf8/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcmsvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab Podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Copyright © 2022 Scicomm Media LLC

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38unmwpklvukho6wwnnbp/x0hph6hn25d38qh5/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcHJpdmFjeS1wb2xpY3kvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
)