# Stretching Protocols to Increase Flexibility and Support General Health

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Wed, 27 Jul 2022 23:11:48 +0000*

---

I describe the key takeaway messages for building
flexibility, and I outline sample protocols.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Podcast Neural Network — a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. The purpose of this newsletter is to provide
you with actionable information in condensed form.

Aging causes a natural decline in the range of motion over which
our limbs and joints can move. From age 20 to 49, our flexibility
declines by ~10% each decade. Studies show, however, that a
dedicated stretching routine can and will give you improved range
of motion in your limbs and joints, aka more “flexibility.”

During Episode #67 (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/e0hph7hkg2gorof8/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vaW1wcm92ZS1mbGV4aWJpbGl0eS13aXRoLXJlc2VhcmNoLXN1cHBvcnRlZC1zdHJldGNoaW5nLXByb3RvY29scy8_dXRtX2NhbXBhaWduPWp1bHlfMjAyMl9zdHJldGNoaW5nJnV0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbA==
), I discussed the biological mechanisms of flexibility,
highlighting the communication between the nervous system,
muscles and surrounding connective tissue. I also detailed key
features of the major four different types of stretches (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/z2hghnhov8vxlqap/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS90a0gyLV9qTUNTaz90PTMxMTg=
).

Below, I describe the key takeaway messages for building
flexibility, and I outline sample protocols that can be used and
modified to develop your own optimal stretching routine.

----------------------
Benefits of Stretching
----------------------

In addition to alleviating general feelings of “tightness,”
increasing flexibility can also contribute to improvements in
overall general health: balance/stability, improved posture,
smoother gait and elevated physical performance; and it can
reduce pain. Stretching can also reduce inflammation — some data
in animal models suggest it may even potentially reduce the risk
of cancer (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/x0hph6hn6l60q4h5/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubmF0dXJlLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy9zNDE1OTgtMDE4LTI2MTk4LTc=
).

-----------------------------------------------
No Need to Stretch Intensely (or for Very Long)
-----------------------------------------------

​Wyon et al (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/e0hph7hkg2gorxu8/aHR0cHM6Ly9qb3VybmFscy5sd3cuY29tL25zY2EtanNjci9GdWxsdGV4dC8yMDA5LzEwMDAwL0FfQ29tcGFyaXNvbl9vZl9Ud29fU3RyZXRjaGluZ19Nb2RhbGl0aWVzX29uLjM0LmFzcHg=
). showed that “microstretching” (defined for the study as
30-40%, where 100% would be slightly painful) is more effective
than increasing the intensity of a stretch. So, whatever
stretching routine you adopt, know that you do not need to push
your limbs/joints to a point where you feel pain. Consistency and
frequency will pay dividends for long-term flexibility — not
intensity! Most people will also be pleased to learn that an
effective stretching protocol can take as little as 5 minutes per
day.

-----------------
Static Stretching
-----------------

While dynamic and ballistic stretching (both types involve
swinging limbs and using momentum) can be helpful prior to
performance-based activity and sports, a routine built on static
stretching appears to be the most effective (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/owhkhqh4v7vd0kfv/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cudGhpZW1lLWNvbm5lY3QuY29tL3Byb2R1Y3RzL2Vqb3VybmFscy9hYnN0cmFjdC8xMC4xMDU1L3MtMDA0NC0xMDExNDY=
) at increasing long-term flexibility.

​Bandy et al (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/p8heh9h90l0opdsq/aHR0cHM6Ly9hY2FkZW1pYy5vdXAuY29tL3B0ai9hcnRpY2xlLzc3LzEwLzEwOTAvMjYzMzExMD9sb2dpbj1mYWxzZQ==
). determined that 30 seconds is the minimum threshold for
flexibility benefits for static hold stretches (generating no
momentum to move into or through the stretch). The stretching
routine frequency is a key factor in long-term flexibility
improvements. In a comprehensive review of different stretching
routines, Palma et al (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/owhkhqh4v7vd0kfv/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cudGhpZW1lLWNvbm5lY3QuY29tL3Byb2R1Y3RzL2Vqb3VybmFscy9hYnN0cmFjdC8xMC4xMDU1L3MtMDA0NC0xMDExNDY=
). found that a minimum stretching frequency of 5x per week, with
a total stretching time of 5 minutes/muscle group/week, was
optimal.

Static Stretching — Protocol Basics
-----------------------------------

Do 2-4 sets of 30-second static holds per muscle group, 5 days
per week.

Note: Meeting the goal of 5 minutes per muscle group per week can
also be achieved by holding each stretch longer (e.g., 60 seconds
instead of 30 seconds). By increasing the hold time per stretch,
you can reduce the frequency (such as stretching every other day
as opposed to 5x per week). That said, don’t try to stretch once
or twice a week for a long time and expect much progress; better
to do a little bit each day or so. The research shows that
consistency beats duration and intensity when it comes to
increasing flexibility.

Protocol #1: Static Stretching
------------------------------

-->Download Protocol #1 (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/6qheh8hpgdge3dao/aHR0cHM6Ly9kb3dubG9hZC5maWxla2l0Y2RuLmNvbS9kL2diaDFjZFl0M2I0cEJXenRDRmV2WmIvNGZHZVJYbnVYNVliRjg2OHVVbVROMw==
)
Download Protocol #1 (
https://download.filekitcdn.com/d/gbh1cdYt3b4pBWztCFevZb/4fGeRXnuX5YbF868uUmTN3
)

--------------
PNF Stretching
--------------

The nervous system and muscles are in constant communication to
keep joints and limbs within a “safe” range of motion. One such
safety mechanism is the presence of intrafusal spindle fibers
that communicate muscle stretch to the spinal cord and brain. If
a stretch becomes excessive (e.g., arms swinging uncomfortably
far behind your back), the spindle fibers activate specific motor
neurons that cause the associated muscle(s) to rapidly contract,
thereby bringing muscles/joints back to the normal range of
motion.

Another protective mechanism is provided by the Golgi tendon
organs (GTOs), which sense the amount of load or tension on a
muscle. If GTOs sense too high of a load (i.e., trying to move
something too heavy), the GTOs will communicate to the spinal
cord and inhibit the motor neuron’s ability to contract the
muscle, thereby preventing possible injury.

PNF (Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation) stretching
leverages these mechanisms to actually increase flexibility. PNF,
also called “contract-relax stretching,” combines stretching and
contracting of muscles to increase joint range of motion and, in
some cases, contractile strength (listen here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/kkhmh6h8q3qvo9ul/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS90a0gyLV9qTUNTaz90PTE4MDM=
) to learn about underlying mechanisms). Here is a basic PNF
routine:

Protocol #2: PNF Stretching
---------------------------

-->Download Protocol #2 (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/25h2hoh7zezwq2u3/aHR0cHM6Ly9kb3dubG9hZC5maWxla2l0Y2RuLmNvbS9kL2diaDFjZFl0M2I0cEJXenRDRmV2WmIvb3d3WjZ0UXNXVmh2YjdvSnhucWg5dA==
)
Download Protocol #2 (
https://download.filekitcdn.com/d/gbh1cdYt3b4pBWztCFevZb/owwZ6tQsWVhvb7oJxnqh9t
)

--------------------------
Antagonistic Muscle Groups
--------------------------

Alternating exercises of antagonistic muscle groups (e.g.,
flexors and extensors) can improve overall performance. For
example, if you were to alternate barbell or dumbbell rows or
pullups (all of which are pulling-based back exercises) with
barbell or dumbbell bench presses or shoulder presses (pushing
exercises), this would allow the chest, shoulders and triceps a
period to “relax” while the biceps are actively engaged (during
pulling movements) and for your back and biceps to relax during
your pushing exercises. There is, of course, some crossover
activation of antagonistic muscles, but this alternating of push
and pull movements/sets can be very effective, nonetheless.

The relaxation occurs using some of the same mechanisms described
above, where spindle fibers are released in the triceps, causing
“relaxation” of the muscle while the GTOs become activated in the
biceps. This phenomenon is termed autogenic inhibition, where the
contraction of one muscle group “relaxes” the antagonistic muscle
group.

Protocol #3: Antagonistic Muscle Group Training
-----------------------------------------------

-->Download Protocol #3 (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/g3hnh5he5k5w06ur/aHR0cHM6Ly9kb3dubG9hZC5maWxla2l0Y2RuLmNvbS9kL2diaDFjZFl0M2I0cEJXenRDRmV2WmIvd3BLV1h3U2s1Y3lMVk52VGtWYTNSUA==
)
Download Protocol #3 (
https://download.filekitcdn.com/d/gbh1cdYt3b4pBWztCFevZb/wpKWXwSk5cyLVNvTkVa3RP
)

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

Hopefully, these protocols serve as useful examples in designing
a routine stretching practice tailored to your goals. They can
and should be adapted to your goals and current routines.
Remember, consistency is the key to enhancing flexibility. By
incorporating some or all of these approaches into your training
(or even while you take calls, etc.), you can make sure you are
offsetting the loss in flexibility that would otherwise occur,
and building a supple, strong body by enhancing pathways between
your nervous system and muscles.

Stay in touch! New episodes of the Huberman Lab Podcast are out
each Monday on YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/3ohphkhqlnlgkvhr/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYW5kcmV3aHViZXJtYW5sYWI=
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/48hvheh0ene87vbx/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/reh8hohqrerzozt2/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUA==
), Google Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/8ghqhohgvxvn76ik/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5nb29nbGUuY29tL2ZlZWQvYUhSMGNITTZMeTlvZFdKbGNtMWhibXhoWWk1c2FXSnplVzR1WTI5dEwzSnpjdw==
) and all major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/vqh3hrhn7d7rqztg/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZm9sbG93P3V0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1qdWx5XzIwMjJfc3RyZXRjaGluZyZ1dG1fc291cmNlPW5ldXJhbF9uZXR3b3JrJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWw=
). Please subscribe to those channels and provide feedback and
suggestions (the YouTube Comments section is the best place to do
that, as we read them all). New, short, actionable clips from the
Huberman Lab Podcast are available on our YouTube Clips Channel (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/m2h7h5hop7pzllsm/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vaHViZXJtYW5sYWJjbGlwcw==
). I post additional science and science-based tools on Instagram
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/e0hph7hkg2godxa8/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/owhkhqh4v7vdekbv/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
), Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/p8heh9h90l0oedsq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
) and LinkedIn (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/6qheh8hpgdge4dto/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubGlua2VkaW4uY29tL2luL2FuZHJldy1odWJlcm1hbi8=
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/58hvh7h58z82w5f6/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)

-----------------
AG1 Special Offer
-----------------

As I often mention on the podcast, AG1 gives me additional
energy, tastes great and reassures me that I am covering my
nutritional bases regardless of how careful or consistent I am
with my whole food intake. This is the supplement I recommend
when asked, "what is the one best thing to take?" For me, taking
AG1 is a non-negotiable, everyday practice.

-->Redeem special offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/58hvh7h58z82w5f6/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)
Redeem special offer (
https://athleticgreens.com/partner/d35ctoffer-nutrition/en?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=influencer&utm_campaign=drhuberman_nl_d35ct__a1294__o22&utm_term=variable__a1294__o22&utm_content=health__a1294__o22
)

​

This newsletter was made possible by AG1. For a special offer,
click here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/58hvh7h58z82w5f6/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9kMzVjdG9mZmVyLW51dHJpdGlvbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1pbmZsdWVuY2VyJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1kcmh1YmVybWFuX25sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzIyJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWhlYWx0aF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
).

The Neural Network is the official newsletter of the Huberman Lab
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/qvh8h7h8505p3dul/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

You can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0 )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0 )
your email preferences.

If you were forwarded this email and wish to subscribe, you can
do so here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/9qhzhnhgmlmr89u9/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcmsvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
).

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab Podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Copyright © 2022 Scicomm Media LLC

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8x8p67f0/3ohphkhqlnlg8var/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcHJpdmFjeS1wb2xpY3kvP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWls
)