# Breathwork Protocols for Health, Focus & Stress

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Fri, 06 Oct 2023 13:47:07 +0000*

---

Learn how to use specific breathing patterns to
positively shift your mood, physical capacity, focus, and sleep
quality.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Neural Network — a
once-a-month newsletter focused on science and science-related
tools for everyday life. The aim of this newsletter is to provide
you with actionable information in a condensed form.

In episode 112, “How to Breathe Correctly for Optimal Health,
Mood, Learning & Performance (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/58hvh7hm9nw8rka7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaHViZXJtYW5sYWIuY29tL2VwaXNvZGUvaG93LXRvLWJyZWF0aGUtY29ycmVjdGx5LWZvci1vcHRpbWFsLWhlYWx0aC1tb29kLWxlYXJuaW5nLWFuZC1wZXJmb3JtYW5jZQ==
),” I discuss how deliberate respiration (breathing) represents a
unique and powerful bridge between the subconscious and conscious
mind — and how specific breathing protocols allow us to shift the
state of our brain and body in powerful ways. In this newsletter,
I explain how to use specific breathing patterns to influence
your brain-body state and thereby positively shift your mood,
physical capacity, and focus — and improve sleep. Indeed, even
brief, deliberate breathing protocols, if done correctly, can
positively impact all these around the clock — not just during
the breathwork practice.

--------------
Why We Breathe
--------------

Breathing allows the body to draw in oxygen (O2) and discard
carbon dioxide (CO2), or more accurately to balance ratios of
O2:CO2 in our brain and body. When we inhale, oxygen fills and
passes from millions of tiny sacs (“alveoli”) in our lungs, into
our bloodstream. Once in the blood, a carrier molecule,
hemoglobin, helps deliver the oxygen to the cells of the brain
and body. While carbon dioxide is a cellular waste product, it is
also essential for proper oxygenation of our cells. Carbon
dioxide changes hemoglobin’s shape to help liberate bound oxygen
into the surrounding cells and tissues.

Carbon dioxide levels also relate to our body’s pH (level of
acidity). During exercise, body pH drops slightly, and that
results in increased oxygen offloading to exercising muscles.
When exhaling, carbon dioxide is removed from the bloodstream,
passing from the to the alveoli into of lungs and then, with the
exhale exiting the body via the mouth or nose.

At rest, the brain has the most metabolically active cells in
the body and thus requires significant levels of oxygen. Improper
O2:CO2 ratios can put the body in a
hypoxic state (lack of oxygen) and negatively affect
cognition and physical function. In order to constantly monitor
levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide within the body, parallel
mechanical (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/g3hnh5h3zl254gu3/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g_dj14NG1fUGRGYnUtcyZ0PTExMTJz
) and chemical (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/n2hohvh3ox4pz0t0/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g_dj14NG1fUGRGYnUtcyZ0PTE4NzJz
) pathways vigilantly regulate breathing patterns.

------------------
Optimize Breathing
------------------

Healthy at-rest breathing patterns bring about 6 liters of air
into the lungs per minute, which is accomplished by taking ~12
shallow-to-moderate breaths per minute. However, most people
“overbreathe,” averaging 15-to-18 breaths per minute.
Overbreathing causes excessive exhalation, thereby reducing
carbon dioxide (this is termed “hypocapnia”) and decreasing
oxygen delivery to the brain and other tissues. When the brain
does not receive adequate oxygen, it becomes hyper-excitable (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/48hvhehr2p3e4ecq/aHR0cHM6Ly9saW5rLnNwcmluZ2VyLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlLzEwLjEwMDcvczAwMjIxMDA1MDY4MA==
), causing difficulty focusing and anxiety.

To reduce overbreathing when doing non-exercise activities, try:
1) Taking small pauses between breaths and 2) Using nasal
breathing (as opposed to mouth breathing), because the relatively
higher resistance of the nostrils automatically extends the
duration of exhales.

In addition to slowing breathing rate, nasal breathing at rest
and during sleep has benefits compared to mouth breathing. Note:
mouth breathing has its place when exercising.* (More below.)

* The increased resistance of nasal breathing allows for maximum
lung inflation each breath to increase oxygen delivery to the
body.
* The nasal passages warm the incoming air, which is healthier
for the lungs.
* Nitric oxide (gas) is produced in nasal passages and causes
smooth muscle relaxation. Nasal breathing improves blood vessel
dilation to efficiently remove waste, deliver nutrients and help
relieve sinus congestion.
* Nasal breathing improves facial aesthetics (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/wnh2hghwokdpe2fl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYW1hem9uLmNvbS9KYXdzLUhpZGRlbi1FcGlkZW1pYy1TYW5kcmEtS2Fobi9kcC8xNTAzNjA0MTM2
), such as elevation of the eyebrows and cheekbones, sharpening
of the jaw, and improvement of the tooth and jaw structure.

While many people over-breathe during the day, many have the
opposite problem at night. Sleep apnea occurs when breaths are
too shallow or infrequent, causing temporary hypoxia and frequent
waking throughout the night. This condition is more frequent in
individuals carrying excess weight, but even lean people can
under-breathe in their sleep and can lead to many issues:

* Symptoms: sleepiness, snoring, morning headache, irritability,
inattention
* Potential Risks: increases the risk of cardiovascular disease
and stroke, exacerbates dementia, impacts cognitive function,
decreased libido
* Treatment Options: 1) CPAP machine, 2) sleep with medical tape
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/reh8hoh053prgga6/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYW1hem9uLmNvbS9zP2s9bWVkaWNhbCt0YXBlK2Zvcittb3V0aCZzcHJlZml4PW1lZGljYWwrdGFwK2Zvcittb3UlMkNhcHMlMkMxMjkmcmVmPW5iX3NiX3NzX3RzLWRvYS1wXzJfMTk=
) on the mouth to force nasal breathing, 3) practice nasal
breathing during exercise and throughout daytime to train proper
breathing

-------------------
Test Your Breathing
-------------------

To reduce overbreathing, practice controlling the diaphragm (an
important muscle for breathing located below the lungs). One way
to do that is to deliberately expand your stomach “out” when
inhaling and let it return “in” while exhaling.

Also, take the carbon dioxide tolerance test — a tool developed
by human performance expert Brian Mackenzie — to measure your
ability to control the diaphragm and discard rate of CO2. It’s
easy and free.

* Breath normally for 4-5 breaths, then inhale 1x deeply through
your nose, until your lungs are completely full.
* Then, start a timer and measure how long it takes for you to
slowly exhale all of the air. Make the exhale as slow as
possible.
* Stop the timer when you can no longer exhale any more airand
note how long the exhale was. Stop the timer when your lungs are
empty; it’s not about measuring how long you can hold your
breath! Then breathe normally.

From your results (see this table (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/08hwh9hd79453lsp/aHR0cHM6Ly9kb3dubG9hZC5maWxla2l0Y2RuLmNvbS9kL2diaDFjZFl0M2I0cEJXenRDRmV2WmIvZ05QQVdvWkRXM21ncnBzZmV5NWhkdQ==
)), practice 2-3 minutes of box breathing, 1-2x per week, to
improve your diaphragmatic control and learn to increase your CO2
discard rate. This will translate to less overbreathing when at
rest, and you’ll likely see improved performance during exercise
— and reduced anxiety as well.

Box breathing is a pattern of: inhale-hold-exhale-hold, done
repeatedly for a given period of time. (Think of each duration as
a side of a four-sided box. See a visual here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/8ghqhohl528vm7fl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g_dj1uNlJiVzJMdGRGcw==
)).

How long should the duration of each inhale-hold-exhale-hold be?
It should be based on your timed exhale duration in the carbon
dioxide tolerance test; reference this table (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/08hwh9hd79453lsp/aHR0cHM6Ly9kb3dubG9hZC5maWxla2l0Y2RuLmNvbS9kL2diaDFjZFl0M2I0cEJXenRDRmV2WmIvZ05QQVdvWkRXM21ncnBzZmV5NWhkdQ==
) for the duration to practice box breathing.

Again, practice 2-3 minutes of box breathing, 1-2x per week.

Repeat the tolerance test after 1-2 weeks of practice to see if
you can increase the duration of holding on each “side.” Progress
ultimately leads to less frequent breaths and healthier breathing
patterns.

------------------------------
Breathing for Stress Reduction
------------------------------

Use a science-based strategy for stress relief with the
physiological sigh (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/l2hehmh3knp98gig/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9yQmRocUJHcWlNYz9zaT1IQWtNVEk4dTQxTlNBbG5L
).

The Physiological Sigh
----------------------

* Take 2 consecutive inhales through the nose: one big inhale,
followed by another inhale (with no exhale in between!), to
maximally inflate your lungs.
* Then exhale all your air until you are lungs-empty, via your
mouth.

This rapidly shifts your autonomic nervous system from a state of
elevated arousal and agitation toward a state of feeling more
calm. It is — to my knowledge, the fastest way to calm down in
real time. Even just 1-3 physiological sighs (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/m2h7h5h8nqxp4khl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g_dj1kM0NPZWFwZFdmWQ==
) can allow us to stay in or return to a calmer state.

There is also value to practicing physiological sighs. In
collaboration with Dr. David Spiegel of Stanford School of
Medicine, my laboratory published a clinical trial (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/dpheh0h07oxgp4tl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuY2VsbC5jb20vY2VsbC1yZXBvcnRzLW1lZGljaW5lL2Z1bGx0ZXh0L1MyNjY2LTM3OTEoMjIpMDA0NzQtOA==
) showing that cyclic physiological sighs, practiced daily for 5
minutes, reduce overall stress, promote relaxation, improve
sleep, lower resting heart rate and enhance mood.

-------------------------------
Breathing for Alertness & Focus
-------------------------------

Use cyclic hyperventilation (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/e0hph7h0nlzgrlc7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g_dj1tSVZ6N3p5blFQOA==
) to increase alertness and enhance focus.

Repeated forceful, deep inhales followed by exhales =
hyperventilation. This causes the release of adrenaline in the
brain and body and thus increases alertness and our capacity for
focus.

Cyclic Hyperventilation*
------------------------

(also see two notes below)

* Take a deep inhale through the nose, immediately followed by a
deep exhale (active or passive) through the mouth.
* Repeat the above 25x, then fully exhale until lungs are empty
and hold for 15-30 seconds.
* Then, repeat for up to 5 minutes.

Expect to feel a little tingly or agitated right after completing
the exercise. However, over the next few minutes, adrenaline will
increase to improve your focus and attention greatly.

While cyclic hyperventilation increases stress in the short term,
repeated training allows you to practice staying calm while
feeling agitated and leads to a higher stress threshold.

*Please use caution practicing this technique if you are prone to
panic attacks or have high anxiety. And never, ever perform
cyclic hyperventilation near or in any body of water or while
driving. There is a possibility of passing out, which can lead to
“shallow water blackout,” which can result in drowning, or car
accidents, especially when combined with extended breath holds.
Be safe!

------------------------------------
Breathing and Heart Rate Variability
------------------------------------

The science of heart rate variability has long been used in
sports, military and clinical practice. There is a direct
connection between breathing and heart rate, allowing you to
deliberately reduce your heart rate (e.g., perhaps prior to
sleep, an interview, public speaking, etc.) or increase heart
rate (e.g., prior to engaging in athletic performance). It is
rooted in something called respiratory sinus arrhythmia, which
sounds bad but is actually a hard-wired and normal feature of our
body. It has complex circuitry related to the vagus nerve that
links the brain and body, including heart, lungs and brainstem,
but it can be summarized simply:

To increase your heart rate: deliberately inhale longer and more
deeply/vigorously than you exhale. To decrease your heart rate:
exhale longer and more vigorously than you inhale. Here are some
examples (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/7qh7h8ho46e7n8f9/aHR0cHM6Ly9kb3dubG9hZC5maWxla2l0Y2RuLmNvbS9kL2diaDFjZFl0M2I0cEJXenRDRmV2WmIvOGZZZHdCbzNmY3Y0b2hUVE43dnk1Rw==
) of this in common breathwork practices. You’ll see why they
produce the effects they do. It’s about whether the breathwork
emphasizes the duration and/or vigor of exhales (e.g.,
physiological sighs) or the duration and/or vigor of inhales
(e.g., cyclic hyperventilation), or if they are balanced (e.g.,
box breathing).

*In fact, just understanding this inhale-to-increase-heart-rate
and exhale-to-decrease-heart-rate phenomenon can allow you to
adjust your state of mind and body any time, deliberately, as
needed, without the need to do dedicated “breathwork.”

Deliberate breathing is a powerful tool to control your
brain-body state. You now have the knowledge and protocols to
incorporate breathwork in real time and/or as a dedicated
practice. Whether you do it daily or only once in a while, I’m
certain you’ll find it to be a potent tool, as it effects so many
neural circuits, neurochemicals and hormone systems in the brain
and body.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

New episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube and all major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/owhkhqhr86evqlaq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaHViZXJtYW5sYWIuY29tL3BvZGNhc3Q=
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

​
SPONSOR

*********
AG1 Offer
*********

As I often mention on the podcast, AG1 gives me additional
energy, tastes great and reassures me that I am covering my
nutritional bases regardless of how careful or consistent I am
with my whole food intake. This is the supplement I recommend
when asked, "What is the one best thing to take?" For me, taking
AG1 is a non-negotiable, everyday practice.

AG1 is offering a free one-year supply of AG Vitamin D3+K2, plus
five AG1 Travel Packs with your first purchase of AG1.

-->Redeem Offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/z2hghnh3dkzvl8bz/aHR0cDovL3RyYWNrLmRyaW5rYWcxLmNvbS9hZmZfYz9vZmZlcl9pZD01NiZhZmZfaWQ9MTI5NCZhZHZfdW5pcXVlMT1wYXJ0bmVyJmFmZl9zdWI9aHViZXJtYW4mYWZmX3N1YjI9cGFydG5lcnNoaXBzJmFmZl9zdWI1PW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImYWZmX3N1YjM9ZHJodWJlcm1hbm5sX2QzNWN0JmFmZl9zdWI0PXZhcmlhYmxlJmFkdl91bmlxdWUzPTctSGVhbHRoLVdlbGxuZXNz
)
Redeem Offer (
http://track.drinkag1.com/aff_c?offer_id=56&aff_id=1294&adv_unique1=partner&aff_sub=huberman&aff_sub2=partnerships&aff_sub5=newsletter&aff_sub3=drhubermannl_d35ct&aff_sub4=variable&adv_unique3=7-Health-Wellness
)

Update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll
) your contact information or unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll
).

Copyright © 2023 Scicomm Media LLC. All rights reserved.

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/v8uxrd3v86srhxg6glliwuzrl38ll/p8heh9hz72e0q7ur/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpY29tbWVkaWEuY29tL3ByaXZhY3ktcG9saWN5
)