# Exercises & Nutrition to Support Eye Health

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Wed, 28 Jun 2023 22:46:41 +0000*

---

This newsletter explains key behavioral and other
tools to help improve your vision and eye health and reduce
age-related vision decline.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Neural Network — a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. This newsletter aims to provide you with
actionable information in a condensed form.

In Episode #24 (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/08hwh9hdx9n2nzhp/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdGhlLXNjaWVuY2Utb2YtdmlzaW9uLWV5ZS1oZWFsdGgtYW5kLXNlZWluZy1iZXR0ZXIv
), I discuss the science of vision and how your eyes convert
light energy (photons) into signals the brain can use to perceive
images and to control hormone and neurotransmitter release in the
brain and body. Because healthy, clear vision is important to
everyday well-being and sense of vitality, this newsletter
explains key behavioral and other tools to help improve your
vision and eye health and reduce age-related vision decline.

------------------------------
Daily Practices for Eye Health
------------------------------

Throughout the day, your eyes have to adjust in many ways in
order for you to maintain a crisp, sharp image of the world
around you. The lens of the eye is “relaxed” when looking off in
the distance, such as when looking towards the horizon. To focus
on closer objects, the eye adjusts by thickening the lens to
bring these objects into sharp view. When you spend many hours
focused on close-up objects (computers, screens, phones), the eye
muscles and nerves that control them are working hard. Over time,
viewing objects up close for most of the day changes the length
of the eyeball. These changes make quickly focusing on different
distances — especially far-off ones — more challenging and can
exacerbate myopia (nearsightedness).

* To maintain healthy eyes, focus on periodically letting your
eyes relax throughout the day. If you do a lot of up-close work
(computer, reading, etc.), aim for more balance of near and far
viewing, and allow your eyes to view far-off distances multiple
times throughout the day. Try taking calls or joining a meeting
while sitting outside or while walking, or look out a window to
the furthest location you can. You don’t need to fixate on one
visual location; rather, viewing to multiple distances far away
(beyond 3 feet out to infinity) is key.
* Frequently focusing on close-up objects (e.g., computers) can
predispose you to tension headaches too. In fact, for every 30-60
minutes of up-close work, allow all your face muscles to relax
(including the jaw muscles) for 1-5 minutes or so while viewing
things further out in the distance. Even more time viewing things
in the distance in this relaxed manner would be better, but most
people are simply not able to divorce themselves for more than
1-5 minutes per every waking hour from screens viewed up close.
Still, do what you can.
* Headaches and fatigue due to up-close viewing can also be
mitigated by “optic flow.” Get outside for a walk, run or bike
ride. Don’t read on your phone for more than a glance or so while
doing these activities, of course! The panoramic vision and optic
flow induced by self-generated movement can reduce anxiety and
improve mood. Alas, while exercise is good, optic flow is not the
same on a stationary bike or treadmill. Get outside and move as
best and as often as you safely can.

The incidence of myopia is rising around the world, particularly
in kids and young adults, who spend more time indoors. Wu et al.
found (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/8ghqhohl32wowkfl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYWFvam91cm5hbC5vcmcvYXJ0aWNsZS9TMDE2MS02NDIwKDE3KTMwMzY3LTYvZnVsbHRleHQ=
) that kids who get more than two hours of sunlight daily have
lower incidence of myopia. Much of this effect is probably due to
far viewing, and yet we also know that sunlight activates
specific neurons in the eye called intrinsically photosensitive
retinal ganglion cells that indirectly control blood flow and
support the ciliary body (which controls the aperture of the eye)
to improve eye health. Those mechanisms may explain why getting
outside for 2+ hours/day of sunlight can protect from and
possibly help reverse myopia.

* Try to get outside for 2+ hours a day, preferably without
sunglasses — unless of course your eyes are very sensitive — and
NEVER stare at the sun. A brimmed hat is fine if you need it;
people vary in their sensitivity to brightness. If you must, take
your work outside to reach that 2 hours. You can still focus on a
computer, studying or working outside, as the ambient sunlight
will aid eye health and contribute positively to overall health (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/vqh3hrhp4vmommiw/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdXNpbmctbGlnaHQtZm9yLWhlYWx0aC8=
). Remember to take visual breaks throughout the day to do far
viewing, even if working outside.

---------------------
Eye Training Exercise
---------------------

Try the following exercises to help improve voluntary control of
these muscles to improve vision, focus eyes quickly to different
distances, and offset age-related vision decline:

* Smooth Pursuit Eye Task – Practice following a small object
with your eyes. Try to follow the object with smooth eye
movements — not allowing eyes to dart from one point to another.*
In nature, practice this type of eye movement by watching a bird
in flight. Or, during a sports game, try smoothly tracking a
tennis ball, golf ball or hockey puck. You can also practice this
exercise at your computer (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/l2hehmh34nqlqeig/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vYy9WaXN1YWxFeGVyY2lzZXMvdmlkZW9z
).
* Try to complete this type of exercise for 2-3 minutes, 3x per
week.

* Near-Far Exercises – Accommodation is the eye’s ability to
adjust focus to objects near or farther away by changing the
optics of the eye and lens itself. As some of you might have
already experienced, this ability naturally declines with age,
and it takes more time to focus on objects at different distances
(e.g., focusing on a server at a restaurant, then looking down to
read the menu).* Train eye muscles by visually focusing on a pen
or other small object positioned about 1.5 feet in front of your
eyes. Slowly, move the object closer toward your nose while
keeping the object in focus. Continue to move the object closer
and closer until the image gets blurry.* With practice, your
ability to move the object nearer to you while maintaining sharp
focus will improve. The effort involved will also be less over
time.
* You can also practice this exercise in reverse: focus on an
object near to you, then move it farther away.

* Improve your control of eye muscles and the associated neural
connections by practicing this exercise for around 1-2 minutes
every other day.

------------------------
Set Your Circadian Clock
------------------------

The eyes are also important for communicating information about
the environment to set your body’s circadian clock (sleep-wake
and hormone cycles). The melanopsin retinal ganglion cells that
reside in the back of the eyes (in the retina) signal the time of
day to the brain. This information affects sleep rhythms, mood,
alertness, hormones, metabolism, learning/memory, pain
thresholds, blood glucose, cortisol and dopamine levels. These
cells are maximally activated in response to blue-yellow light
contrasts that are present in low solar angle sunlight (i.e.,
sunlight in the early morning and early evening).

* To maintain circadian rhythm consistency, ensure you get 5-10
minutes of sunlight viewing (minimum) as soon as possible after
you wake up. Try to get outside a second time in the late
afternoon or early evening to do the same as well. Sunlight early
in the morning will prime your body to sleep 12-16 hours later
and improve overall energy and mood throughout the day along with
regular awake-sleep and other 24-hour rhythms.
* The melanopsin retinal ganglion cells are very sensitive and
able to detect even relatively dim light at night. Nighttime
activation of these cells can disrupt sleep, reduce melatonin,
and reduce next-day dopamine release, and it may exacerbate
myopia.* Try to minimize light in your sleeping environment. If
you need to use light, such as when walking to the bathroom, try
using a red light. The longer wavelengths of red/orange light do
not sufficiently activate the melanopsin cells — unless they are
very bright.
* Also, try to wean kids off nightlights and make lights as dim
as possible to reduce their chance of developing myopia. Even a
small amount of light (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/m2h7h5h89q2325bl/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cucG5hcy5vcmcvZG9pLzEwLjEwNzMvcG5hcy4yMTEzMjkwMTE5
) in the room can alter next-day glucose metabolism.

----------------------------------------
Nutrition and Supplements for Eye Health
----------------------------------------

The photoreceptors and associated molecules of the eye can be
further supported through a healthy diet:

* Vitamin A is essential for phototransduction (the process of
converting light energy into electric signals for the brain). A
diet rich in dark, leafy green vegetables (like kale, spinach,
romaine lettuce and broccoli) and yellow/orange vegetables &
fruits (squash, pumpkin, carrots, mango, cantaloupe) will support
sufficient vitamin A intake.* Additional vitamin A is likely
found in most foundational supplements.

* Lutein is another molecule known to support the eye’s
phototransduction processes. Foods such as egg yolk and dark,
leafy vegetables are rich sources of lutein.* There is also
evidence (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/dpheh0h0kodednul/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaGluZGF3aS5jb20vam91cm5hbHMvam9waC8yMDE2LzkwMzU3NDUv
) that lutein supplementation (10-20 mg/day), can reduce moderate
to severe age-related macular degeneration.

* By focusing on a diet rich in nonprocessed fruits and
vegetables, you will best be able to derive the antioxidant and
vitamin support important for overall health, including eye
health.

--------------------
Contact Lens Caution
--------------------

As a final note, for those who wear contacts, ensure you follow
the package information for total length of wear (different for
daily vs. monthly lenses), note expiration dates, and do not
overuse contacts. Contacts are made of special material to ensure
oxygen diffusion into the eye. However, contact overwear, such as
wearing contacts for too many hours in a day, sleeping in
nonextended-wear contacts, wearing old or expired contacts, or
inadequate lens care resulting in dirty lenses, causes inadequate
oxygen flow to the eye. If contact overwear continues, blood
vessels can start to grow into the eye, and this can result in
impairment of the visual field and painful associated health
conditions.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

New episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/e0hph7h0elm7mgi7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vQGh1YmVybWFubGFi
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/7qh7h8ho86d9d2h9/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/z2hghnh37k5e5lbz/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUA==
) and all major podcast platforms. Please subscribe to those
channels. I post additional science and science-based tools on
Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/p8heh9hzd2r4rpcr/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/x0hph6hwzpkekmhg/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
) and Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/6qheh8h7w5xlxqt9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
) and LinkedIn (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/kkhmh6hle5znrgsk/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubGlua2VkaW4uY29tL2luL2FuZHJldy1odWJlcm1hbi8=
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,​Andrew

SPONSOR

ROKA makes high-quality sunglasses and eyeglasses. Their
sunglasses' lenses are designed with the biology of the visual
system in mind, allowing for seamless adaptation when you're
shifting from bright to dim environments. Their excellent
contrast means you don't have to constantly take them off and put
them on while on the move. All of their frames—sunglasses and
glasses—are lightweight and were originally designed for use
during exercise, so they won't slip off your face. However,
they're also aesthetically pleasing, so you can wear them
anywhere, from dinner to work. ROKA is offering Huberman Lab
Neural Network subscribers 30% off your first order using code
HUBERMAN30.

-->Claim Offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/58hvh7hm0n3gqvi7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cucm9rYS5jb20vcGFnZXMvaHViZXJtYW4_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1lbWFpbCZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1lbWFpbF8yMzA2LXJ4c3VuLWdlbmVyYWwtcmVjby1odWJlcm1hbi1nZW5lcmFsJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWh1YmVybWFu
)
Claim Offer (
https://www.roka.com/pages/huberman?utm_source=email&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=email_2306-rxsun-general-reco-huberman-general&utm_content=huberman
)

Update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0 )
your contact information or unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0 ).

If this newsletter was forwarded to you, you can subscribe here
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/25h2hoh2g8l368s8/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcms=
).

Copyright © 2023 Scicomm Media LLC. All rights reserved.

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/n4ul09ow5kbvh8vewm6h0/qvh8h7hrv4edzvsg/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpY29tbWVkaWEuY29tL3ByaXZhY3ktcG9saWN5
)