# Using Light for Health

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Tue, 24 Jan 2023 16:42:14 +0000*

---

Given that light has tremendous positive effects,
this newsletter aims to outline zero-cost tools to harness the
power of light.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Neural Network — a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. This newsletter aims to provide you with
actionable information in a condensed form.

In Episode #68 (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/m2h7h5hox2o7lpbm/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdXNpbmctbGlnaHQtc3VubGlnaHQtYmx1ZS1saWdodC1hbmQtcmVkLWxpZ2h0LXRvLW9wdGltaXplLWhlYWx0aD91dG1fY2FtcGFpZ249dXNpbmdfbGlnaHRfZm9yX2hlYWx0aCZ1dG1fc291cmNlPW5ldXJhbF9uZXR3b3JrJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWwmdXRtX2NvbnRlbnQ9dGV4dF9saW5r
), I discuss how light directs a number of key aspects of our
physiology to strongly impact our overall health and well-being.
Light directly impacts our mood, our sleep, our ability to wake
up and focus, our hormone levels, our immune system and our
ability to cope with stress. Given that light has tremendous
positive effects, this newsletter aims to outline zero-cost tools
to harness the power of light to improve mental and physical
health.

----------------------------------------------------
Morning Sunlight to Set Your Mind and Body Correctly
----------------------------------------------------

I consider viewing morning sunlight in the top five of all
actions that support mental health, physical health and
performance.

These are:

* Sleep
* Movement
* Nutrients (Macro and Micro)
* (Sun)Light
* Relationships

As regular listeners of Huberman Lab can attest, “View morning
sunlight!” is one of my common refrains. Viewing sunlight within
the first hours of waking (as soon as you can, even if through
cloud cover) increases early-day cortisol release (the ideal time
for elevated cortisol) and prepares the body for sleep later that
night. A morning spike in cortisol will also positively influence
your immune system, metabolism and ability to focus during the
day.

Further, morning sunlight helps regulate your “circadian clock” —
the body’s mechanism for anticipating when to wake up and go to
sleep — and it manages other biological processes like hunger and
body temperature.

On a sunny morning, get outside for 5-10 minutes. You can do more
if you have time, and feel free to use the time outside to
exercise, walk, eat a light breakfast or journal in the sunlight.
Even on overcast days, there is still enough sunlight to trigger
positive effects, but you’ll need to increase the time outside to
at least 15-20 minutes. If it’s dark when you wake up or if the
weather prevents you from going outside, flip on as many bright
indoor artificial lights as possible — then get outside as soon
as the sun is out.

Contacts and eyeglasses (even those with UV protection) are fine
to wear when viewing morning sunlight. However, don’t use
sunglasses or blue blockers during morning sunlight-viewing — you
won’t get the maximum effects from the morning sunlight. Face
toward the sun. As always, never look directly at the sun or view
the sun (or any light) in a way that causes pain; just close your
eyes and blink as needed to protect your eyes. Note: trying to do
all this through a windshield or window won’t work; too many of
the relevant wavelengths are filtered out.

------------------------------------------
Afternoon Sunlight to Reinforce Your Sleep
------------------------------------------

Later in the day, try to get outside in the afternoon. The
particular wavelengths of the sun when it is low in the sky
(yellows and oranges, in contrast with blue) come through even if
it’s overcast. Sunlight viewed in the late afternoon/evening
communicates to the brain’s circadian clock that it is evening
and time to begin the process of transitioning to sleep that
night.

Also, on the occasional day you miss getting outside early in the
morning, the afternoon sunlight serves as a second “anchor point”
for your brain and body to know the time/season, in order to
maintain the consistency of your circadian clock.

Note: Afternoon sunlight is known to reduce some (not all!) of
the ill effects of late-night brightness from artificial sources.

---------------------------------------------
Using Light to Improve Daytime Energy & Focus
---------------------------------------------

In the morning and until the midafternoon, use bright overhead
lights to facilitate the release of dopamine, norepinephrine,
epinephrine (molecules associated with motivation, attention and
drive) and optimal amounts of cortisol to maximize your alertness
and focus for work or other activities. Increase the ambient
light of your workspace rather than increasing the brightness of
the computer screen. Ideally, also place your desk near a window,
as the natural sunlight signals the brain to stay alert and
focused.

In the late afternoon, follow the natural rhythm of the sun and
start to dim the work environment. Try to reduce blue light
exposure to aid the transition to sleep later. Turn off overhead
lights; use lamps or softer lighting and dim the computer screen.

----------------------------------------------------------------
Avoid Bright Lights at Night to Protect Mood & Neurotransmitters
----------------------------------------------------------------

In my conversation with Dr. Samer Hattar (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/e0hph7hkzmk2d8b8/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZHItc2FtZXItaGF0dGFyLXRpbWluZy1saWdodC1mb29kLWV4ZXJjaXNlLWZvci1iZXR0ZXItc2xlZXAtZW5lcmd5LW1vb2Q_dXRtX2NhbXBhaWduPXVzaW5nX2xpZ2h0X2Zvcl9oZWFsdGgmdXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXVyYWxfbmV0d29yayZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PXRleHRfbGluaw==
), a senior investigator and chief of the section on Light and
Circadian Rhythms at the National Institutes of Mental Health
(NIMH), he discussed the importance of viewing morning sunlight,
specifically UVB rays, blue light, to improve mood, increase
energy, regulate appetite and increase dopamine release. He also
warned that UVB light exposure from artificial sources/screens at
night (10 p.m.-4 a.m.) decreases dopamine levels and negatively
impacts feelings of depression and anxiety. Once in a while is
fine, but if you are looking at your phone or turning on bright
lights, especially overhead lights, between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. on
a regular basis, your health will suffer.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
Inexpensive Red Lights to Keep Nighttime Cortisol Low & Melatonin
High
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Keeping your cortisol low at night is essential for sleep and
immune system health. Also, the hormone melatonin naturally rises
in the late evening to produce feelings of sleepiness and stays
elevated through the beginning of the night. However, bright
light powerfully inhibits melatonin. So, if you need to get up in
the middle of the night (to use the bathroom or check on
children, etc.), try using no light or very dim light. Or you
could try to use amber or red light (longer wavelengths), as this
type of light more minimally impacts melatonin levels.
Inexpensive red “party light” bulbs work fine. I shift to using
red lights around 9 p.m., and it has greatly improved my sleep.
Of course, turn them off at bedtime.

In fact, for high-quality, deep sleep, ensure that your room is
very dark while you sleep. Mason et al. (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/z2hghnhoz5o8mztp/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cucG5hcy5vcmcvZG9pLzEwLjEwNzMvcG5hcy4yMTEzMjkwMTE5
) demonstrated that even dim light exposure during sleep impairs
cardiometabolic function and increases insulin resistance.

Bright Red Light
----------------

“Red-light therapy” is becoming more common. It has, indeed, been
shown (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/p8heh9h9er9lpvcq/aHR0cHM6Ly9hY2FkZW1pYy5vdXAuY29tL2Jpb21lZGdlcm9udG9sb2d5L2FydGljbGUvNzUvOS9lNDkvNTg2MzQzMQ==
) to improve eyesight in individuals older than 40, but it must
be done in the early daytime. It can also assist (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/6qheh8hp4xpd4kuo/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2Ntc2pvdXJuYWwuY29tL2FydGljbGUvYWJzdHJhY3QvbG93LWxldmVsLWxhc2VyLWxpZ2h0LXRoZXJhcHktbGxsdC1pbi1za2luLXN0aW11bGF0aW5nLWhlYWxpbmctcmVzdG9yaW5nLw==
) with acne, wound healing and more, but for all those effects
one needs a special red light. They are commercially available
but carry some cost (hundreds to thousands of dollars). That
said, if you want to learn more, I discuss these and the science
and tools in our episode titled “Using Light (Sunlight, Blue
Light & Red Light) to Optimize Health (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/m2h7h5hox2o7lpbm/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdXNpbmctbGlnaHQtc3VubGlnaHQtYmx1ZS1saWdodC1hbmQtcmVkLWxpZ2h0LXRvLW9wdGltaXplLWhlYWx0aD91dG1fY2FtcGFpZ249dXNpbmdfbGlnaHRfZm9yX2hlYWx0aCZ1dG1fc291cmNlPW5ldXJhbF9uZXR3b3JrJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWwmdXRtX2NvbnRlbnQ9dGV4dF9saW5r
).”

Shift Work
----------

Avoid looking at bright light in the middle of your individual
sleep cycle. Use dark window shades and dim lighting to get good
quality sleep. Ideally, try to stay on the same schedule for a
minimum of two weeks at a time, so your circadian clock can
better predict your sleep cycle. Those with young children or
those working night shifts should see our episode on jet lag and
shift work (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/58hvh7h5w35zw0f6/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vZmluZC15b3VyLXRlbXBlcmF0dXJlLW1pbmltdW0tdG8tZGVmZWF0LWpldGxhZy1zaGlmdC13b3JrLWFuZC1zbGVlcGxlc3NuZXNzP3V0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj11c2luZ19saWdodF9mb3JfaGVhbHRoJnV0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbCZ1dG1fY29udGVudD10ZXh0X2xpbms=
) for science-supported tools that help.

--------
Hormones
--------

Thus far, all these tips are focused on viewing sunlight, but
there is also an advantage to getting sunlight on your skin.
Parikh et al (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/25h2hoh7xl7ex0b3/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuY2VsbC5jb20vY2VsbC1yZXBvcnRzL2Z1bGx0ZXh0L1MyMjExLTEyNDcoMjEpMDEwMTMtNT9fcmV0dXJuVVJMPWh0dHBzJTNBJTJGJTJGbGlua2luZ2h1Yi5lbHNldmllci5jb20lMkZyZXRyaWV2ZSUyRnBpaSUyRlMyMjExMTI0NzIxMDEwMTM1JTNGc2hvd2FsbCUzRHRydWU=
). found that skin exposure to afternoon sunlight for about 30
minutes (such as by wearing shorts and short-sleeved t-shirts)
increased testosterone, estrogen, mood and libido in both men and
women. To follow their protocol, get outside in shorts/t-shirts
for ~20-30 minutes in the afternoon, 2-3x per week minimum. Don’t
sunburn!

There are other light-based tools in Episode #68 (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/m2h7h5hox2o7lpbm/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vdXNpbmctbGlnaHQtc3VubGlnaHQtYmx1ZS1saWdodC1hbmQtcmVkLWxpZ2h0LXRvLW9wdGltaXplLWhlYWx0aD91dG1fY2FtcGFpZ249dXNpbmdfbGlnaHRfZm9yX2hlYWx0aCZ1dG1fc291cmNlPW5ldXJhbF9uZXR3b3JrJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWwmdXRtX2NvbnRlbnQ9dGV4dF9saW5r
), but the above eight tips are the biggies. #1 and #4 are the
most important.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

New Huberman Lab episodes are out each Monday on YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/qvh8h7h83e8030il/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vQGh1YmVybWFubGFi
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/9qhzhnhg84gl8gc9/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/n2hohvhn42nk4vf6/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUD9zaT1lMDE1MTJiMDQ5NGM0Njhk
) and all major podcast platforms. Please subscribe to those
channels. I post additional science and science-based tools on
Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/wnh2hghrdmr3dgb7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/08hwh9hm4nmk4ntl/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
), Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/vqh3hrhn6mnd60hg/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
) and LinkedIn (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/l2hehmhopqozp7t6/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubGlua2VkaW4uY29tL2luL2FuZHJldy1odWJlcm1hbi8=
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

​

(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/m2h7h5hox2o7xpcm/aHR0cHM6Ly9tb21lbnRvdXMuc2p2LmlvL2MvMzQwNjk3NC8xNTc5OTYwLzE1ODI2
)

-----------------------
Momentous Special Offer
-----------------------

We're happy to share that Huberman Lab has partnered with
Momentous. Momentous' supplements are of the highest quality;
each is third-party tested for purity and accuracy of dosage and
they ship internationally.

Save 20% on all orders.

-->Shop Now (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/m2h7h5hox2o7xpcm/aHR0cHM6Ly9tb21lbnRvdXMuc2p2LmlvL2MvMzQwNjk3NC8xNTc5OTYwLzE1ODI2
)
Shop Now ( https://momentous.sjv.io/c/3406974/1579960/15826 )

This newsletter was made possible by Momentous. For a special
offer, click here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/m2h7h5hox2o7xpcm/aHR0cHM6Ly9tb21lbnRvdXMuc2p2LmlvL2MvMzQwNjk3NC8xNTc5OTYwLzE1ODI2
).

You can unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck )
or update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck )
your email preferences.

If you were forwarded this email and wish to subscribe, you can
do so here (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/dpheh0hqxdqmx9tm/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcms_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1uZXVyYWxfbmV0d29yayZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9jb250ZW50PWZvb3Rlcl90ZXh0X2xpbms=
).

Copyright © 2023 Scicomm Media LLC. All rights reserved.

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/k0uld0mwrqb6hd3xpweck/7qh7h8h0ed0mencz/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpY29tbWVkaWEuY29tL3ByaXZhY3ktcG9saWN5P3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV1cmFsX25ldHdvcmsmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbCZ1dG1fY29udGVudD1mb290ZXJfdGV4dF9saW5r
)