# Optimize Your Water Quality and Intake for Health

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Thu, 25 May 2023 19:45:34 +0000*

---

This newsletter explains how to optimize your
hydration, clean your tap water and adjust the type of water you
consume, but only if necessary.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Neural Network — a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. This newsletter aims to provide you with
actionable information in a condensed form.

Water is a vital nutrient, making up approximately 60-80% of
human cells and tissues. In Episode #114 (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/l2hehmh3nvdpprbg/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vaG93LXRvLW9wdGltaXplLXlvdXItd2F0ZXItcXVhbGl0eS1hbmQtaW50YWtlLWZvci1oZWFsdGgv
), I explain the physical and chemical properties (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/dpheh0h0ow2xxdal/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g_dj1hdDM3WThyS0RsQSZ0PTExNjdz
) of water and describe the foundational role that water plays in
cellular function, mental and physical performance and our
overall health. This newsletter explains how to optimize your
hydration, clean your tap water and adjust the type of water you
consume, but only if necessary.

***************
Cells and Water
***************

Water is key to maintaining healthy cellular function, including
the buildup and breakdown of cellular components, chemical
reactions, and protein structure and function, and it acts as a
solvent (dissolving agent) and can even function as an
antioxidant — protecting cells from damage by free radicals.

******************
Optimize Hydration
******************

Dehydration (even mild dehydration) negatively impacts physical
performance, alertness and cognitive focus, and thereby can cause
“brain fog.” To ensure proper hydration, aim to consume 8 oz (237
mL) of fluid per hour for the first 10 hours of your day. Note:
these are averages! You do not need to neurotically consume 8 oz
every hour but rather 16 oz on waking, then 8 oz a few hours
later, 32 oz later, 4 oz, etc. Eighty ounces in the first 10
hours of your day, spread out as is practical, is just fine. The
issue is simply that most people do not drink enough water volume
in the waking hours of their day. Drinking ~80 oz in the first 10
hours after waking can help most people offset dehydration.

Why the first 10 hours? The body’s circadian clock (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/e0hph7h0lwdzz6b7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubmF0dXJlLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy9zNDE1ODEtMDE4LTAwNDgtOQ==
) (i.e., sleep and wakefulness pattern) strongly regulates the
cells within the kidney and gut via the hormone vasopressin.
Within the first 10 hours after waking, the kidney works
efficiently to filter fluid, then output reduces (so hopefully,
you do not frequently wake up during the night to urinate!). Yes,
drinking more water in the daytime will have you going to the
restroom more often, but that is not a bad thing.

Waking 1-2 x per night to urinate is not an indication of
pathology, but if you struggle with more frequent nighttime
urination, try to:

* Sufficiently hydrate during the day.
* Reduce fluid intake in the evening and in the 2-3 hrs before
sleep.
* If you need to drink at night, sip water slowly; the rate of
fluid consumption impacts the need to urinate, as does the volume
you consume, of course.

****************************
Exercise, Heat and Hydration
****************************

Above meeting your baseline hydration requirements (80 oz/10 hrs
of waking), other factors such as exercise, sweating, excess
heat, dry environments and caffeine intake affect your hydration
requirements. When exercising, follow the Galpin Equation (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/7qh7h8ho6pxeelf9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g_dj1xMzdBUlluUkRHYyZ0PTI5ODlz
) as a guideline for the amount of additional fluid you should
consume (again, on average — no need to be neurotically obsessed
with consuming exact amounts at exact times during exercise,
unless you prefer to.

The Galpin Equation:

* Body weight (in lbs.) divided by 30 = number of ounces to
consume every 15-20 minutes
* Body weight (in kg.) × 2 = number of mL to consume every 15-20
minutes

If you are in hot temperatures or sweating, increase the Galpin
Equation guidelines by an additional 50-100%. For every 20-30
minutes in the sauna, consume an extra 8-16 oz of fluid.

Also, be mindful of how caffeine consumption increases your
overall water intake needs, as it is a diuretic. If you drink
caffeine, increase fluid intake (ideally with electrolytes like
sodium, potassium and magnesium) by 2:1 to offset dehydration. In
other words, if you drink an 8-ounce coffee with caffeine, ingest
16 oz of water, ideally with low/no-sugar electrolytes like LMNT,
or simply a pinch of salt.

Thirst is a good indicator that you are not sufficiently
hydrated, but your perception of thirst lags behind the body’s
true hydration status. So not being thirsty does not mean you
don’t need more fluid. Therefore, preemptively plan your
hydration strategy, especially in extreme weather or
high-intensity activities.

*********
Tap Water
*********

Due to the scale and limitations of standard municipal filtration
systems, most tap water does contain contaminants, which, in high
concentrations, negatively affect health. These can include:

* Disinfection byproducts (DBPs) — the remnants of municipal
water disinfection treatment
* Some DBPs are endocrine disruptors (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/owhkhqhr6l0eedtq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubWRwaS5jb20vMTQyMi0wMDY3LzIxLzYvMTkyOQ==
) that negatively impact fertility in males and females.
* High fluoride negatively impacts thyroid health (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/z2hghnh3krmzzvcz/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubmF0dXJlLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy9zNDE1OTgtMDE4LTIwNjk2LTQ=
) (fluoride at ≥0.5 mg/L can disrupt thyroid function).
* Lead in the pipes going into your house/building; this is rarer
in developed countries but still exists some places.

For a water analysis of your tap water, Google your zip code for
a water quality report, or contact the Safe Drinking Water
Hotline (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/p8heh9hz25peewfr/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZXBhLmdvdi9hYm91dGVwYS9lcGEtaG90bGluZXMjZHJpbmtpbmc=
). You can find additional resources (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/x0hph6hwpd4mm5ug/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuY2RjLmdvdi9oZWFsdGh5d2F0ZXIvZHJpbmtpbmcvaW5kZXguaHRtbA==
) from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Note: In the U.S., water reports should be provided for free by
the city, and you should not have to pay for results. However, if
you choose, you can also test tap water at home (
https://click.convertkit-mail.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
) (approximately $25) or send a water sample for independent
laboratory (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/e0hph7h0lwdzzds7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuY2xlYW53YXRlcnRlc3RpbmcuY29tL3Rlc3QteW91ci13YXRlci1xdWFsaXR5Lw==
) analysis (approximately $100+).

*******************
Filtering Tap Water
*******************

For most people, it will be healthier to filter their tap water.
Many pitcher filters (e.g., Brita) can filter some disinfectant
byproducts but do not trap smaller particles, notably fluoride.
Based on your budget, consider these options for filtering tap
water, which vary by cost:

Note: The Huberman Lab podcast and I have no affiliation with any
brands, companies or Amazon vendors related to water filters or
tests and do not receive any monetary compensation from them.

*
* $400: countertop filters for larger water volumes (e.g., Berkey
Filters (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/owhkhqhr6l0eeziq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYmVya2V5ZmlsdGVycy5jb20v
))
* $800+: whole house water filters (e.g., Aquasana Filters (
https://click.convertkit-mail.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
))
* Zero-cost option: rest 1-5 gallons of water, uncapped, at room
temperature for ~1 day. Sediment will fall to the bottom, so you
can pour off the top two-thirds for drinking.
* Note: do not opt
for boiling tap water as a filtration method because high heat
can actually make contaminants worse.

***********
Water Types
***********

Tap water with higher magnesium concentrations (ideally: 8.3-19.4
mg/L) is more alkaline and, therefore, improves absorption. This
has nothing to do with adjusting the pH of your body as some
water brands suggest! That is pure falsehood. The pH of your
tissues is regulated tightly to remain in a given range.

Water’s ion concentration profile and filtration processes
produce different types of water:

* Hard water: has higher magnesium and calcium concentrations,
which increase the pH (and thus can improve absorption, but again
it does NOT change the pH of your tissues ).
* There is evidence
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/p8heh9hz25pev3ur/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpZW5jZWRpcmVjdC5jb20vc2NpZW5jZS9hcnRpY2xlL2Ficy9waWkvUzAyNzMyMzAwMjAzMDAxNTU_dmlhJTNEaWh1Yg==
) that more alkaline water can reduce inflammation and blood
pressure and lower risks of cardiovascular disease.

* Distilled or double-distilled water: removes calcium and
magnesium. Due to the health benefits of these ions, do not
regularly drink this type of water.
* Reverse osmosis water: repeated filtration traps many
contaminants to more thoroughly clean water. This type of water
is safe to drink. However, it’s quite expensive and can lack
certain key minerals.
* Hydrogen-enriched, electrolyzed-reduced, deuterium-depleted
water: has higher pH than normal tap water. This type of water
has not been studied extensively. However, at least one study (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/6qheh8h75634qwi9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubmF0dXJlLmNvbS9hcnRpY2xlcy9zNDE1OTgtMDIwLTY4OTMwLTI=
) has shown inflammation reduction and improvement in other
health metrics, likely due to improved hydration of cells.
* If
you choose, you can make this type of water at home by dissolving
a molecular hydrogen tablet (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/kkhmh6hl52op72uk/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYW1hem9uLmNvbS9tb2xlY3VsYXItaHlkcm9nZW4vcz9rPW1vbGVjdWxhcitoeWRyb2dlbg==
) (which contains a specific type of magnesium) in a glass of
water for 5-15 minutes.
* Note: If your tap water has a high magnesium concentration, the
water is already sufficiently alkaline.

* Structured water: in the presence of some solids or liquids,
the configuration of water can change, causing the “like” charges
(i.e., positive/positive) to attract and form stronger bonds.
There is currently no scientific evidence supporting the health
benefits of structured water. However, some (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/58hvh7hmno4weza7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cucG9sbGFja2xhYi5vcmcv
) theorize that water is structured in cells and has additional
health benefits. This is actually a controversial area with
strong opinions (!) and a growing body of science so stay tuned.

In just a few steps, and for low/no cost (I cover the zero-cost
options for those that can’t afford any of the options above on
the podcast), you can adjust your tap water, making it cleaner,
healthier and more rapidly absorbable to improve your overall
health and aid high levels of performance each day.

**************
Stay Connected
**************

New episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast are out each Monday on
YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/25h2hoh280qx5ou8/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vQGh1YmVybWFubGFi
), Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/qvh8h7hr42l3x8ug/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
), Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/g3hnh5h3lo02v3i3/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUD9zaT01MWNmMjIxNzlmNTg0Y2M0
) and all major podcast platforms. Please subscribe to those
channels. I post additional science and science-based tools on
Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/9qhzhnhp63e87dtz/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/3ohphkh729k8w4hp/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
) and Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/n2hohvh3x5l4drc0/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
) and LinkedIn (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/48hvhehrpq73oksq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubGlua2VkaW4uY29tL2luL2FuZHJldy1odWJlcm1hbi8=
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,
Andrew​

​
SPONSOR

*********
AG1 Offer
*********

As I often mention on the podcast, AG1 gives me additional
energy, tastes great and reassures me that I am covering my
nutritional bases regardless of how careful or consistent I am
with my whole food intake. This is the supplement I recommend
when asked, "What is the one best thing to take?" For me, taking
AG1 is a non-negotiable, everyday practice.

AG1 is offering a free one-year supply of AG Vitamin D3+K2, plus
five AG1 Travel Packs with your first purchase of AG1.

-->Redeem Offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/wnh2hghwkvldzmul/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdGhsZXRpY2dyZWVucy5jb20vcGFydG5lci9odWJlcm1hbi9lbj91dG1fc291cmNlPW5ld3NsZXR0ZXImdXRtX21lZGl1bT1wYXJ0bmVyc2hpcHMmdXRtX2NhbXBhaWduPWRyaHViZXJtYW5ubF9kMzVjdF9fYTEyOTRfX28yMiZ1dG1fdGVybT12YXJpYWJsZV9fYTEyOTRfX28yMiZ1dG1fY29udGVudD03LUhlYWx0aC1XZWxsbmVzc19fYTEyOTRfX28yMg==
)
Redeem Offer (
https://athleticgreens.com/partner/huberman/en?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=partnerships&utm_campaign=drhubermannl_d35ct__a1294__o22&utm_term=variable__a1294__o22&utm_content=7-Health-Wellness__a1294__o22
)

Update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz )
your contact information or unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz ).

If this newsletter was forwarded to you, you can subscribe here
(
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/reh8hoh03vop84c6/aHR0cHM6Ly9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vbmV1cmFsLW5ldHdvcms=
).

Copyright © 2023 Scicomm Media LLC. All rights reserved.

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail.com/zlu8ekgl0wanh43vonniz/08hwh9hd9wp48ehp/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpY29tbWVkaWEuY29tL3ByaXZhY3ktcG9saWN5
)