# How to Improve Learning & Performance by Developing a Growth Mindset

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Wed, 06 Mar 2024 14:46:00 +0000*

---

This newsletter teaches you how to use a growth
mindset correctly.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Neural Network — a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. This newsletter aims to provide you with
actionable information in a condensed form.

In the episode "How to Enhance Performance & Learning by Applying
a Growth Mindset (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/7qh7h8hoz0ozp4h9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaHViZXJtYW5sYWIuY29tL2VwaXNvZGUvaG93LXRvLWVuaGFuY2UtcGVyZm9ybWFuY2UtYW5kLWxlYXJuaW5nLWJ5LWFwcGx5aW5nLWEtZ3Jvd3RoLW1pbmRzZXQ=
)," I discuss how to develop and apply a growth mindset — the
process of rewarding effort, not results, as a means to improve
learning and performance. Data show the positive consequences of
a growth mindset are far-reaching. Many myths exist about a
growth mindset. This newsletter teaches you how to use a growth
mindset correctly.

-------------------------
What Is a Growth Mindset?
-------------------------

​Dr. Carol Dweck (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/owhkhqhro4rol4tq/aHR0cHM6Ly9wcm9maWxlcy5zdGFuZm9yZC5lZHUvY2Fyb2wtZHdlY2s=
) coined the term growth mindset to describe research on how to
improve learning that is anchored in the belief that our
abilities are malleable — and indeed they are (!) because our
brains can continually learn and change throughout our lifespan
(neuroplasticity).

Our understanding of our abilities and our narratives of why we
are “good” and “bad” at certain things often arises out of the
unconscious (or conscious) understanding of the types of feedback
we receive early in life. There are two basic kinds of feedback;
one is better for improving learning than the other.

* Intelligence/Performance-based feedback is associated with
identity labels. Praise involves telling a child (or adult)
they’re smart and talented, learn things easily, or are really
good at a particular skill. Identity-label feedback actually
undermines effort and results in the long run! Most people don't
realize this, and intelligence feedback is problematic because
when we inevitably fail to perform well, we then assume it’s due
to something central to our identity. For that and many other
reasons, it’s generally good to avoid
intelligence/performance-based feedback.
* Effort-based feedback, on the other hand, is
performance-enhancing and is always associated with “verb”
(action) states. This type of praise focuses on persistence,
effort, dedication or how a person kept working through an error
or challenge. For example, saying, “That was a solid effort,” or
“You’re pushing really hard to learn, which is so good!” or “It’s
great the way you kept trying when you had a setback,” etc. is
ideal for enhancing performance as it leads to more of what’s
required to improve, and it generalizes to other scenarios.
* Effort-based feedback is especially important when someone (or
you) performs well, not just when someone falls short of a goal.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
Enhance Results by Combining Growth Mindset with
Stress-Is-Enhancing Mindset
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The benefits of a growth mindset are greatly enhanced when
combined with the "stress-is-enhancing" mindset (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/z2hghnh3wo3wr3cz/aHR0cHM6Ly9haS5odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcy9EaVJaSWM0SA==
), which was developed by Dr. Alia Crum (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/p8heh9hzx9zx54fr/aHR0cHM6Ly9haS5odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcy9vVGs5WkJocA==
) and colleagues and is based on how we think about the effects
of stress. When people are educated about the negative effects of
stress, their performance declines. However, when people are
educated about the positive effects of stress, they show improved
performance on difficult cognitive tasks.

------------------------------------
How Does Stress Enhance Performance?
------------------------------------

Stress signals the body and brain to mobilize more resources to
better meet challenges. Stress may feel uncomfortable, but it
also:

* Increases adrenaline and dopamine release in the brain and
body, leading to heightened alertness, increased energy, and
elevated focus.
* Improves cognition (thinking) and causes release of
neurotrophins (neural growth factors) that improve learning and
memory by assisting neuroplasticity (brain rewiring).
* Quick bouts of stress (1-2 hours or less) boost the immune
system to protect against illness. Longer bouts can be
problematic, especially if they alter sleep. See the episode on
mastering stress (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/x0hph6hw3nw3d9ug/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaHViZXJtYW5sYWIuY29tL2VwaXNvZGUvdG9vbHMtZm9yLW1hbmFnaW5nLXN0cmVzcy1hbmQtYW54aWV0eQ==
) for more information.

Takeaways & Tools
-----------------

* Even though stress will not always feel good in the moment,
adjust your mindset to remind yourself that stress puts you in an
action-oriented state to enhance performance.
* You can change (and lower) your own stress response by
remembering the positive benefits of stress.
* With practice, you will feel more comfortable under stress and
build up your stress tolerance.

As covered in the full-length Huberman Lab episode on growth
mindset (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/7qh7h8hoz0ozp4h9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaHViZXJtYW5sYWIuY29tL2VwaXNvZGUvaG93LXRvLWVuaGFuY2UtcGVyZm9ybWFuY2UtYW5kLWxlYXJuaW5nLWJ5LWFwcGx5aW5nLWEtZ3Jvd3RoLW1pbmRzZXQ=
), when a stress-is-enhancing mindset is combined with a growth
mindset, the results are synergistic (greater than the sum of
each), long-lasting and in many cases generalize to many useful
scenarios: relationships, athletics, academics, and more. In
short, we can all do well to adopt these mindsets through
cognitive feedback and praise, reframing “failures” and action.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

New Huberman Lab episodes are out each Monday on YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/6qheh8h7op7o6oh9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vQGh1YmVybWFubGFi
) and all major podcast platforms (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/kkhmh6hlm8lm24fk/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaHViZXJtYW5sYWIuY29tL3BvZGNhc3Q=
). Please subscribe to those channels. I post additional science
and science-based tools on Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/58hvh7hm75m7o3u7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), X/Twitter (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/25h2hoh2d72d06i8/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
), Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/qvh8h7hrn8rn2wfg/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
) and LinkedIn (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/g3hnh5h3pe3powt3/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubGlua2VkaW4uY29tL2luL2FuZHJldy1odWJlcm1hbi8=
).

Thank you for your interest in science!

Best wishes,Andrew

This newsletter is sponsored by AG1

As I often mention on the podcast, AG1 gives me additional
energy, tastes great and reassures me that I am covering my
nutritional bases regardless of how careful or consistent I am
with my whole food intake. This is the supplement I recommend
when asked, "What is the one best thing to take?" For me, taking
AG1 is a non-negotiable, everyday practice.

AG1 is offering a free one-year supply of AG Vitamin D3+K2, plus
five AG1 Travel Packs with your first purchase of AG1.

-->Redeem Offer (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/9qhzhnhp9gp93miz/aHR0cHM6Ly9kcmlua2FnMS5jb20vcGFydG5lci9odWJlcm1hbi8wMTdhP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9bmV3c2xldHRlciZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPXBhcnRuZXJzaGlwcyZ1dG1fY2FtcGFpZ249ZHJodWJlcm1hbm5sX2QzNWN0X19hMTI5NF9fbzU2JnV0bV90ZXJtPXZhcmlhYmxlX19hMTI5NF9fbzU2JnV0bV9jb250ZW50PTctSGVhbHRoLVdlbGxuZXNzX19hMTI5NF9fbzU2
)
Redeem Offer (
https://drinkag1.com/partner/huberman/017a?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=partnerships&utm_campaign=drhubermannl_d35ct__a1294__o56&utm_term=variable__a1294__o56&utm_content=7-Health-Wellness__a1294__o56
)

Update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77
) your contact information or unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77
).

Copyright © 2024 Scicomm Media LLC. All rights reserved.

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/4zuop7v04xbeh58z90wboc3drwv77/3ohphkh7zq7z95ap/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpY29tbWVkaWEuY29tL3ByaXZhY3ktcG9saWN5
)