# Improve Your Sleep

*From: Huberman Lab <neuralnetwork@hubermanlab.com>*
*Date: Wed, 15 May 2024 23:27:47 +0000*

---

This newsletter highlights key protocols for
improving your ability to fall asleep, stay asleep, and enhance
the overall quality of your sleep.

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

Thank you for joining the Huberman Lab Neural Network—a
once-a-month newsletter with science and science-related tools
for everyday life. This newsletter aims to provide you with
actionable information in a condensed form.

In the guest series (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/58hvh7hm3r2mlet7/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dWJlLmNvbS9wbGF5bGlzdD9saXN0PVBMUE5XX2dlclhhNE9veXBVRWdaSTd1b3VJMTJXWnJ4ZVMmc2k9MHZPZWpFd1Foc2wxb21LNg==
) with Dr. Matthew Walker (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/qvh8h7hre9pre7ag/aHR0cHM6Ly9haS5odWJlcm1hbmxhYi5jb20vcy9CZHFzb3o0Sw==
), we explain how to determine your sleep needs (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/g3hnh5h3g4w3glb3/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaHViZXJtYW5sYWIuY29tL2VwaXNvZGUvZ3Vlc3Qtc2VyaWVzLWRyLW1hdHRoZXctd2Fsa2VyLXRoZS1iaW9sb2d5LW9mLXNsZWVwLXlvdXItdW5pcXVlLXNsZWVwLW5lZWRz
) and improve sleep quality (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/9qhzhnhp4orp4xiz/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaHViZXJtYW5sYWIuY29tL2VwaXNvZGUvZ3Vlc3Qtc2VyaWVzLWRyLW1hdHRoZXctd2Fsa2VyLXByb3RvY29scy10by1pbXByb3ZlLXlvdXItc2xlZXA=
). This newsletter highlights key protocols from these episodes
that will improve your ability to fall asleep, stay asleep and
enhance the overall quality of your sleep.

------------------------
Sleep Fundamentals: QQRT
------------------------

Quantity: the total amount of sleep. The typical adult needs
sleep 7 to 9 hours of sleep per night. This ensures sufficient
time for both deep sleep (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/n2hohvh32z032ki0/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS8tT0JDd2lQUGZFVT9zaT1OTV80ako5SDFocHE1UXcwJnQ9MTYyNw==
) and REM sleep (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/48hvhehrw48rw2fq/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS8tT0JDd2lQUGZFVT9zaT03VFVzb19wNnR6UnpUZHpNJnQ9MjUyMA==
), so you wake up feeling refreshed and restored. Some people
need less, others more, especially babies, teens, and those
combating an illness or infection.

Quality: the continuity and structure of sleep. Frequent
awakenings (even if you don’t remember) or fragmented sleep
represent poor sleep quality.

* Wearable sleep trackers measure sleep quality through sleep
efficiency scores. An efficiency rating of ≥ 85% is a good goal.
* Note: For some, sleep trackers can lead to anxiety about sleep
quality (termed "orthosomnia"), which can paradoxically lead to
disrupted sleep. Consider reviewing your sleep scores less often.
For example, weekly, not daily, to minimize constant monitoring.
* For those who don’t use sleep trackers, poor sleep quality
often manifests as excessive daytime sleepiness even if they
slept sufficient total hours.

Regularity: stick to a consistent sleep schedule. Consistently
going to bed and waking up at the same time each day leads to
improved overall sleep patterns and quality by anchoring your
body's circadian rhythm, or internal clock.

* Aim for consistent bedtimes and wake times with a ± 30 minutes
margin of error, whether it’s the weekend or a weekday. No one is
perfect about this, but that’s a good goal.* In addition to your
morning alarm clock, consider adding a "bedtime alarm," which
tells you when to go to sleep.

* Studies have shown (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/wnh2hghwme6wmrsl/aHR0cHM6Ly9hY2FkZW1pYy5vdXAuY29tL3NsZWVwL2FydGljbGUvNDcvMS96c2FkMjUzLzcyODAyNjk=
) that regular sleep patterns reduce all-cause mortality and may
reduce the risk of cancer and cardiovascular disease more
effectively than other metrics, such as sleep duration.

Timing: align your sleep schedule with your natural chronotype
(morning person, night owl, versus typical sleep-wake schedule).
Chronotype is primarily determined by genetics, and yet your
preferred sleep time will vary a bit across your lifespan. You
can find your natural chronotype using the
Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire (MEQ) (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/reh8hoh0kgz0k0c6/aHR0cHM6Ly9xeG1kLmNvbS9jYWxjdWxhdGUvY2FsY3VsYXRvcl84MjkvbW9ybmluZ25lc3MtZXZlbmluZ25lc3MtcXVlc3Rpb25uYWlyZS1tZXE=
). Sleeping out of sync with your chronotype will result in
poorer quality sleep. But, of course, we have to adhere to life's
demands as well.

----------------------------
Determine Your Sleep Quality
----------------------------

Do you feel refreshed and restored when you wake up? Or do you
feel you could sleep past your alarm? If you are in the latter
group, the rest of this newsletter focuses on good sleep hygiene
tips and protocols to improve your sleep. Following these
protocols can significantly enhance sleep quality and, by
extension, daily functioning and health.

--------------------
Sleep Hygiene Basics
--------------------

Light & Dark
------------

Melatonin is a hormone that makes you feel sleepy; it does other
things, too. Darkness allows the release of melatonin to signal
the onset of sleep. Bright light, especially at night, potently
inhibits melatonin. This causes you not to feel as sleepy and,
consequently, to get poorer quality sleep.

* In the evening, dim the lights in your home to signal the body
that it's time to wind down. Use low-positioned lights (rather
than overhead) and yellow or, even better, deep orange/red
lightbulbs, if available; they are less stimulating than typical
lights.
* Minimize screen time at night. If you’re on a screen, dim it
way down. Additionally, many computer operating systems show
warmer colors at night. There are also apps like f.lux (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/08hwh9hdn3rdn2fp/aHR0cHM6Ly9qdXN0Z2V0Zmx1eC5jb20v
) (zero-cost) that allow for dimming.
* Add blackout curtains or wear an eye mask to maximize darkness
in the bedroom.
* Upon waking, go outside for 10-15 minutes of morning sunlight.
Sunlight suppresses melatonin and resets your circadian rhythm.
Morning sunlight also triggers cortisol release to help you wake
up and stay more alert during the day. This is especially
important on overcast days! You need sunlight, so it’s not
necessary to see the sun directly, as plenty of light (photons)
penetrate cloud cover.* If you can't get natural morning sunlight
due to geographic location or schedule, artificial bright lights
like seasonal affective disorder (SAD) lamps (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/8ghqhohlwmnlwqul/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9lSlU2RGZfZmZBRT9zaT1uVXF5a21LRVNZdUFibENWJnQ9Mjkx
) are a decent substitute, though less effective.

Temperature
-----------

Temperature plays a crucial role in sleep regulation. To fall
asleep, core body temperature must decrease by approximately
2-3°F (1°C).

* Keep your bedroom cool (~67°F or ~19.4°C), or consider using a
temperature-controlled mattress cover (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/vqh3hrhpmzrpmguw/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZWlnaHRzbGVlcC5jb20vaHViZXJtYW4=
).
* Stick your hands or feet out from underneath the covers to help
cool down.
* Taking a warm bath or shower before bedtime is a
science-supported (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/l2hehmh3q873qwhg/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpZW5jZWRpcmVjdC5jb20vc2NpZW5jZS9hcnRpY2xlL2Ficy9waWkvMDAxMzQ2OTQ4NTkwMDIyNz92aWElM0RpaHViJTI3
) method to improve your ability to fall asleep and sleep deeply.
Initially, the warm water raises core body temperature, but the
subsequent cooling of your core body temperature that occurs
after a hot bath or shower helps facilitate falling asleep.

Food & Meal Timing
------------------

The effect of food on sleep largely depends on appetite,
circadian rhythm, and personal preference. Experiment with
different foods and timing to see what best supports your sleep.

* For most, eating approximately 2 hours before bedtime doesn’t
typically impact sleep. Eating closer to bedtime can increase the
likelihood (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/m2h7h5h82dz822ul/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9odlBHZmNBZ2s5WT9zaT1McE5mWngwc1RXZWtLdURRJnQ9MjQwMQ==
) of gastric reflux (heartburn) and impair sleep in some
individuals. Again, this is highly individual. If you do, make it
a smaller snack or meal, but also don’t try to sleep while overly
hungry. Most people can’t.
* Avoid excessive fluid consumption before bedtime to reduce the
likelihood of waking up throughout the night.

Caffeine
--------

Caffeine does not reduce the need for sleep; it only temporarily
masks sleepiness. Once caffeine wears off, a buildup of
adenosine, a chemical that promotes sleepiness, causes a
"caffeine crash," which usually occurs in the early afternoon.

* Caffeine timing is crucial for sleep quality. So, if you have
trouble sleeping, don’t reach for a late afternoon cup of coffee.
Instead, consume caffeine early in the day and not within 8-10
hours of bedtime.
* Note: some people can sleep fine after ingesting caffeine in
the afternoon or evening. This is likely due to tolerance and/or
differences in how they metabolize caffeine. Do what works for
you, but know that it can negatively affect sleep structure,
including REM duration, in any case.

Wind-Down Routine
-----------------

Much like slowing down a car before stopping, a 'deceleration'
from the day’s activities is essential for good sleep. Establish
a wind-down routine to prepare the body and mind for sleep:

* Engage in relaxing activities, such as meditation, listening to
music, podcasts, sleep stories, or reading a book.
* Avoid stimulating activities before bed, such as watching
television, reading the news, strenuous exercise, or social
media.

Alcohol
-------

Alcohol is a sedative, not a sleep aid. While a 'nightcap' may
help you get to sleep quickly, alcohol impairs the natural
structure of sleep. Also, alcohol causes fragmented sleep.

-----------------------
Trouble Falling Asleep?
-----------------------

Walk It Out: If it’s taking longer than ~20-25 minutes to fall
asleep or back asleep, leave your bed and go elsewhere in the
house to engage in a relaxing activity. The goal is to prevent an
association between a state of wakefulness and your bed, as this
can lead to future difficulties falling asleep. Only return to
bed when you are truly sleepy and be mindful not to fall asleep
in another location; you want to relearn the association of sleep
with the bedroom.

Do Nothing: After one poor night's sleep, avoid compensatory
behaviors such as sleeping later, going to bed early, increasing
caffeine intake, or excessively long or late-day napping. These
behaviors can disrupt your natural circadian rhythms and may
negatively affect sleep-wake cycles—in other words, they will
make it hard to get back on your usual schedule.

Mental Walk: If you have trouble falling asleep, take a "mental
walk" and visualize walking a familiar route. This technique will
redirect your focus away from ruminating thoughts to help you
fall asleep. One study (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/dpheh0h0dln0dvil/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpZW5jZWRpcmVjdC5jb20vc2NpZW5jZS9hcnRpY2xlL2Ficy9waWkvUzAwMDU3OTY3MDEwMDAxMjI_dmlhJTNEaWh1Yg==
) found this method significantly reduced the time it took
participants to fall asleep, proving far more effective than the
traditional approach of "counting sheep."

Limit Daytime Naps: Keep naps short (≤ 20-30 minutes) and no
later than the early to mid-afternoon to avoid impacting your
nighttime sleep.

These tips ought to greatly help optimize your sleep.
Additionally, we have another popular newsletter, "Toolkit for
Sleep (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/e0hph7h0m8o0mvf7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaHViZXJtYW5sYWIuY29tL25ld3NsZXR0ZXIvdG9vbGtpdC1mb3Itc2xlZXA=
)," which provides more actionable tools and protocols.

If you try these protocols and don’t notice a difference, you
might be suffering from a sleep disorder. Seek professional help
if you experience persistent problems, which might be due to
sleep apnea or true insomnia.

--------------
Stay Connected
--------------

New Huberman Lab episodes are released every Monday on YouTube (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/7qh7h8hodr5od5t9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vQGh1YmVybWFubGFi
) and all major podcast platforms, including Apple Podcasts (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/owhkhqhrx2drxvcq/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb2RjYXN0cy5hcHBsZS5jb20vdXMvcG9kY2FzdC9odWJlcm1hbi1sYWIvaWQxNTQ1OTUzMTEw
) and Spotify (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/z2hghnh35qx352sz/aHR0cHM6Ly9vcGVuLnNwb3RpZnkuY29tL3Nob3cvNzlDa0pGM1VKVEhGVjhEc2UzT3kwUD9zaT1kNzMxYjc1MDQyNWM0NWUx
). Please subscribe on YouTube and follow the podcast on Apple
Podcasts and Spotify. I regularly post additional science and
science-based tools on Instagram (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/p8heh9hzrnozrnur/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuaW5zdGFncmFtLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYi8=
), X (formerly Twitter) (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/x0hph6hwk50wkqug/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9odWJlcm1hbmxhYg==
), Facebook (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/6qheh8h7xme7x3i9/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZmFjZWJvb2suY29tL2h1YmVybWFubGFi
), Threads (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/kkhmh6hlzkvlzptk/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cudGhyZWFkcy5uZXQvQGh1YmVybWFubGFi
), and LinkedIn (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/58hvh7hm3r2m3es7/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubGlua2VkaW4uY29tL2luL2FuZHJldy1odWJlcm1hbi8=
).

We're always interested in feedback and encourage you to reply
directly to this newsletter with your thoughts. While we can't
always respond to each message, we do read each one.

Thank you for your interest in science™!

Best wishes,Andrew

(
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/vqh3hrhpmzrpmguw/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZWlnaHRzbGVlcC5jb20vaHViZXJtYW4=
)
SPONSOR

-----------
Eight Sleep
-----------

I started using an Eight Sleep mattress cover over 3 years ago,
and it has completely transformed my sleep. I fall asleep more
quickly, sleep more deeply, and wake up far more refreshed than
before.

Eight Sleep has just released their new Pod 4 Ultra. The Pod 4
Ultra features a more comfortable surface that doesn’t change the
feeling of your mattress, with more cooling power, silent
performance, and phone-free control, plus an adjustable base that
adds snoring mitigation and custom elevation settings for
sleeping, reading, and relaxing.

Eight Sleep ships to the United States, Canada, the United
Kingdom, Europe, and Australia. Click below to access a special
offer of up to $350 off Pod 4 Ultra.

-->Unlock $350 Off (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/vqh3hrhpmzrpmguw/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZWlnaHRzbGVlcC5jb20vaHViZXJtYW4=
)
Unlock $350 Off ( https://www.eightsleep.com/huberman )

Update (
https://preferences.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw
) your contact information or unsubscribe (
https://unsubscribe.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw
).

Copyright © 2024 Scicomm Media LLC

23823 Malibu Rd Ste 50-351, Malibu, CA 90265

Disclaimer: The Huberman Lab podcast is for general informational
purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine,
nursing or other professional health care services, including the
giving of medical advice, and no doctor/patient relationship is
formed. The use of information on this podcast or materials
linked from this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content
of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users
should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any
medical condition they may have and should seek the assistance of
their health care professionals for any such conditions.

Privacy Policy (
https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/92uenkz8wgtnhqm8qexuzu0vqr333bw/25h2hoh2lkw26ra8/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc2NpY29tbWVkaWEuY29tL3ByaXZhY3ktcG9saWN5
)